Why using palm oil when we have coconut oil in the country? 😞
Johnny Bobadilla yong nag sign ng importation ang dikdikin sino ba in charge nyn.
Rose Tan why is palm oil toxic?
why di we import when we have enough?
Vector Fox because low sales i presume? govt need to help them market also
DA now has a big problem,. almost all of the prices of agri products went down... what will happen to us farmers??
gud am sir, pwede mag retail ng bottled coconut water? from bacolod city.
Sec MannyPiñol When you will help us to make it possible
Cris Consuegra what
Cris Consuegra sobra ka naman magreport. Taga mindoro ka o narinig mo lang?
Ilang araw po ba itatagal ng sibuyas pag di naka storage
Ninya Marie meron p po ba kayong bagong aning sibuyas madam?.
Hello maam Mae Bhe.ipapastorage na po namin.pero meron marami pa pong nagaani dito sa san jose..bakit po maam?
Rodlfo Gabor cino ang buyer mo, papabunot po ako sa april 1, baka pwede rin sa kanya makipagdeal.
Sir pinol why cant the government just monopolize the middle man post  ng agriculture? If the government handles all the middle man activities at a decent price. Kikita parin ang govt. And kikita din ang farmer?   Ung private companies kasi. Profit 1st before heart.
Sec MannyPiñol ano ang suitable environment for growing ang planting onion?  Any posibilities nga makagrow sang onion sa Mlang kag tulunan?  Thanks
where do I get some tips on onion farming (for northern Mindanao area)? :)
Nerline Silloren Ilang  lugar lang po ba ang producers ng onion sa Pilipinas para sabihin nating over production o supply?
Acera Nick Sir sabi sa column na noong October pa stop importation.
So sir, how much should be the price now of red  onions ? Less than P109/kilo na?
When?
Farmers are held captive by the buyers because they have not organized their marketing technique. Why not a cooperative to organize marketing?
who do we contact for inquiries
i wonder what the DTI has for developing again the RUBBER INDUSTRY in the Philippines?
Sir.naa ba pod ni ingon ani sa Cebu?
Sir,pwede bang humingi ng reading materials?
Sir how about Sultan Kudarat Province qualified po ba lalo na dito sa bayan ng Pres.Quirino isa po kasi and Pres. ng isang farmers association....
How to avail of like this sir?
Paano maka avail..or may seminar ba about this?...
Sir MannyPiñol how about in Dinagat Islands may program ba kayo sa agriculture at livestock?
Sir manny.interesado po ako magkaroon ng poultry magkano po ba pwede iloan sa SAAD pang capital? ofw.
Why is palm oil not environment friendly?
Sir how about sellimg buko juice instead of sofdrinks in schools
Xian Pitargue sir meron dn tayo palm oil farmers s pilipinas. How about them?
Couldn't we sell coconut milk in cartons locally and also export them?
Coconut oil is one of the healthiest oils even better than olive oil  which is very expensive. Why is the price of raw materials so cheap?
Why not put up a coco oil refinery in Davao Oriental?
Effective since when?
Bakit dito sa granix broke's point palawan 16per kl lng
Sir MannyPinol who do i connect/cellphone number?
Oh, what happened to our Agriculture? God please Guide well our leaders
Sec MannyPiñol  how  about  Onion Small  Storage  lang let say  200  sacks
Rene Pamintuan Any idea total cost ng reefer van na kaya -20 deg C?
Why not provide post harvest facility to store onions and stabilize price?
sir san po tau pwede mag avail ng seedling may alam ako sa pagtanim i had attended garlic and onion production seminar conducted by ur opis in davao tnx last 2017
how about copra sir
Whatever happened to the Coco Levy Fund?
Harold, para sa mga Members lang ng Onion Farmers Association ang funding, pano tayong mga individual onion farmer na hindi member ng any Association or Coop?
Sir, is it possible that you also provide deepwells to other areas even if it is not just for rice production?
MannyPiñol I highly appreciate your reply sir. How can we avail of such projects?
Mr Sec, can we expedite the constructio of this SPIS Project all over the country in order to mitigate the adverse effects of El Nino to Filipino farmers which according to forecast made by Pagasa; will be until August of this year. Thank you👍
Sir manny can we invite him her in Virac Catanduanes? We need water system expert  to sustain our irrigation
From a farmer’s perspective: what good will these tech bring to them when tarriffication is now the law? How can these farmers compete with the unlimited importation of rice into the country?? And what about the price of copra??
Pnoy minded !!! Paano kung makulimlim ??? Talapongo
Paano kung walang init .....
Islands surrounded by large body of water, why not harness the seas and ocean then instead of rivers and lakes? Ask Israel with this technology - desalination to irrigate the plants, farm, human consumption, and even for drinking if need it be.
And...what if... we change? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bLdNhZ6kAzo
Totoo po yan Miat Dualan.... And ang pera ng gobyerno napupunta sa mga cooperaives kung meron man silang projects... Why ibigay diretso sa mga farmers... Like subsidies....
Free irrigation na pla? Bat ngbabayad PA rin kami NG irrigation?
MannyPiñol sir bakit dito sa north cotabato ngbabayad PA rin NG irigasyon?
Free irrigation ba sir manny pinol, bakit sa lugar namin may pinababayaran na maintenance canal fee? Just asking lng nmn kung makatarungan.
here in mlang north cotabato..my relatives pay 500 pesos sa (I.A) for maitenance,and others..sangay ka NIA ang I.A..  pano xa naging free??
Ryan Villasor Painaga Makarunggala tama may bayad 500. Ano meaning ng IE man? Din ka pa mlang ta kadya mag halo halo
MannyPiñol sir,ilang members sa kada grupo ang pwd mk avail ng solar power irrigation?
MannyPiñol sir, how can we acquire that solar powered irrigation system? Can you help us?
Sir Manny Pinol,sa lugar po namin meron po grupo ng upland farmers,,pwede po ba ito sila maka benefits ng solar powered irrigation?papanu po proseso?salamat po..
Our Upland Farmers group here in Leyte  was already accredited by the DOLE,,is they can avail the solar powered irrgation sir?where to submit project proposal?please help us po..thank you..
Sir MannyPiñol Our Upland Farmers group here in Leyte  was already accredited by the DOLE,,is they can avail the solar powered irrgation sir?where to submit project proposal?please help us po..thank you..
Ano ngayon ang idea mo sa ikabubuti ng bansa?
MannyPiñol sir,anu natabo sa solar power  irrigation sa new Janiuay. Daw gipa bay an man.
MannyPiñol how about the issue of product price? Like the rice? I grew up with farming as the main source of income and that’s always been our trouble...when we about to plant the price of everything is just above the roof, when we have our product halos pangayuon nalang...any thoughts on this? There’s no balance. And why we still have imported rice in the country?
Sir MannyPiñol dito rin sa amin sa brookes point, palawan bakit 700 /ha annually pa ang binabayaran nmin sa patubig ng NIA?
MannyPiñol where are these solar system you're talking about? Hearing is entirely different from seeing, meaning action speaks louder than words. Fact is, never seen one here in our place. BATAAN
Stephanie Kho Kailan pa,
MannyPiñol Nationwide ba yung project sir, o pili lang?
a so sir cooperatives lang po b mka avail nyan? paano po ang mga farners n d ksama sa groups na sinasabi nyo?
Alfred G. Gabot How low can they go? They have greenery in the lowest part of the country near the Dead Sea, supposed to be saturated with salt
Gerardo Empleo Suello confirm po ba price niyan 25 pisos per watt ibig sabihin kapag 2000 watts pakabit ko 50k babayaran ko included nba lahat iyon?.
A ZONING SYSTEM.!! SEEDING CLOUDS ON PARTICULAR AREAS ONLY WHERE WATER IS NEEDED.   Not where fruits like Mango Zones will suffer, etc Would our DA Sec be able to achieve this? To tell particular Areas to plant only this or that product and not the other? It would take a strong hand. I hope it happens with Federalism?
Parang it makes sense for the NIA to be under the DA. What do you think Sir?
MannyPiñol there must be a way. Another Usec. perhaps? Importante yan ginagawa mo.
Manny Pinol when you will open gamefowl shipment.
dry spell in two yrs? el niño would extend for two years?
Mr. Piñol, your idea is good. But, have you considered our difference with that you have compared us to? Your solution is good on those areas with underground water system but not in areas where there is none. Good exampleof this is in the second district of ilocos norte, more particularly  Batac, where in the excessive dependency in underwater system for domestic and farm use, salt water is now being drawn from their deep well. Well, we really must learn how to properly use our water. What about government funded desalination and water treatment facilities? Easy or soft loan for farmers to be use on irrigation, and introduction of drip irrigation to some farmers.
Gerick Padilla, did people from Batac city already seek your services? If yes, can you name some people so I can get their side of the story? I know a local dad in that said area, some business establishment owners and agriculturist/farmers, and told me that water is their problem.
How about the issue with our watersheds drying up? Will there be a contingency plan for that as well? Just curious since this might be an issue in the future if we turn our eyes on exploiting the underground water source.
Yes but will it, eventually drain?
What about seawater desalination? And maybe hightime to follow Israel's effective way of farming👍
So, what is the DA doing to replicate in the country the tech of these countries?
Sir we have 10 hectares and 20 hectares of land from our family. Gusto ko po sana mag apply nung solar power irrigation system. Sa masbate po ang area. Paano po ako magaaply?
Chas S Vidanes , did you ask for SPIS?
My 2 cents worth..... maybe easier said than done. If there is no rain for a long long time, the water table recedes (naturally) and when you pump out water to irrigate thousands of hectares, there's a danger that salt water may seep in. Is there technology to avoid this?
Al Marcus Aurelius Galang ano po tamang term sir?
Anikka Ferreras oo nga po maam ehh, diba??? Ano po tawag sa taong yun?? Hahaha
SPIS is good short to mid term. What we really need is dam. I understand the challenges in building one, but that's the only solution. Impound the rainwater. Your spis will be useless if your river is dead, then you have to go stw or deep well, are they sustainable?
Sir piñil...how to avail solar irrigation. We're from pangasinan.
How about the space for the solar pannel, coz mostly have just a little piece of land, only haciendero's will benefit this
Why are we settling on small scale solution Mr secretary.Can't we just step up on big irrigation facilities such as dams or reservoirs that will last for a long run.In Mindanao,we have plenty of water resources but our irrigation planning focus only on small and complimentary planning.
WHY NOT HIRE THEM ( ISRAEL) AS CONSULTANTS   MADAMI KA NA BANG POLITICAL CONSULTANTS NA WALANG ALAM SA AGRICULTURE?  SECRETARY PINOL LETS GIVE IT A TRY FOR THE PILIPINO PEOPLE,!
Soc Piñol RD filipino? Tapos DA. Pinyol. Mag import na lang.
Opening of new markets! Farmers should take a good look at the possibilities and learn how to take advantage. If you are a Pinoy farmer, what are you willing to do to change the status quo? Isip isip!
So many farmers here dont have vast tract of lands. Only a few landlords have. So why procure those? Who will benefit most?
How about ford,john deere or new holland?
question is ang liliit ng farm natin how can you use that?
That's true that no corruption during the Duterte administration but what if the LP under the Aquino regime will return to power? Can you guarantee that there will be no corruption? Good luck
10years i hope?but pinol how about our fellow farmer's?dying in vien?
March 6  -Buying price should be 25 or you're out...  March 25  -Price dips even lower. As low as 13-15.   Now, sino ba ang na-out Sec.Piñol? May naout ba or puro pangako lang tayo?
Jay Tana  it was said in agreement between DA with coconut mill companies last December that farm gate price of coconut was supposed to be P24 per kilo but it was just in newspapers - merely papogi points.  Now the price of copra has further gone down.  What happened ??
Jay Tana, Sec. Manny is doing his best to improve our coconut industry.. the "25" buying price of coconut was his "plea" to the buyers of copra. Can you not see the sacrifice he is doing? A Cabinet Secretary "pleading" for the increase of copra to benefit the farmers? When Sec.Manny knows, that the price of copra is dictated by world market? This the time that we Filipinos must unite for the good of our farmers.. but if you have more good suggestion to increase the price of copra, kindly share it..
Sir Manny Pinol, are there  coco-vinegar and coco-cider included in the coconut products that are to be introduced in that fair?
Demar Nacz , may idea ka na instant mag taas ang presyo ng copra? Kindly share it to us!
Demar Nacz oi! Boy Kopra.. tama na yang sigaw ng Copra.. copra copra.. nanakabingi at nakakasawa na! what is your solution to your copra problem? hinahanapan na nga ng ibang products from the coconut ng PCA at DA copra pa rin? #talangka mentality at its finest..
Mr. Secretary..di ba masisira ang young coconut if e shift 3 weeks before the event?..ano ton e refrigerate? Kaso I still doubt about it...
Anyone here is local producers or have contact with coconut oil producer we need huge quantity of MCT oil from coconut oil.. please PM me for more details.. thanks Sec. MannyPiñol
Dayang Maki, ang ating mga OFWs gawing salespeople of our products? Hahaha u must be kidding. Busy n nga yn sa mga trabahong bahay eh. They are there to earn not to sell or promote products.
where to buy virgin coco oil? ang mahal ksi sa grocery,,pede po kasing lotion ito at organic pa
How can the average farmers tap the global stage when consortiums rape on the price and protection......
How can the average farmers tap the global stage when consortiums rape on the price and protection......
Hi Sir Manny. Can you pls give us some guide on how export our mango fruits from guimaras. Harvest is expected this coming first week of May. Thank you sir.
What about Western Europe? I’ve never seen them in Germany or other neighboring countries in Europe.
Isn’t Sweet Elena from Zambales the best mango in the world according to Guiness Book of Records?
Chas S Vidanes , he je.. you're a mango "grower" and not a mango producer! Anong kailangan mo na tulong from government? Ano kailangan mo? Herbicide?
Are you going to spray herbicide to you mango? Bullshit nga!
Bong Pinol does a banana grower produces mango?
Chas S Vidanes is your brain still functioning???
Guimaras and Zambales, the best in the entire world?
Sir, what about here in Australia specifically here in Sydney, when are we going to have Philippine mangoes? Thanks.
30 or so years ago, may nagtanim na ng carabao mangoes sa Queensland. Thosands of trees, that's what was being told by some Pinoys there. Ano kaya nangyari?
MannyPiñol sir Ofw ako Milan Italy at negosyo ko ay agricultural Products sa Pinas.   Baka pwede mabigyan ako ng advice para sa padlabas ng produkto patungong europe. Ty
Jon Kenneth Manrique will Guimaras farmers share their seedlings is the big question.
Why ih why would you pay this vendor $20 US for a mango? Thata insane. Hope it wasn't taxpayer money. You should have passed on that purchase. Sounds like it's only affordable by the rich. I could not afford to buy that.
Can you, please send those mangoes here in Norway? We badly need good mangoes here. We need good bananas, too!
Sir, when is the negotiation with Eurozone to get these mangoes in  Western Europe? 😊
Our main problem is how to preserve and mentain that the mango does not over ripe. Duration of Shipment and delay the ripining of the fruits.....
how much in US 4 dollar a kilo 1 dollar a piece? =)
How about our mango here in gensan, Mr. secretary?
Why can’t administration talk about helping farmers then? Blah blah! Tulong ang ksilsngan
What about our rice and coconut industry?
how about price of the copra
Mangos ,wHats next?
Saan po pwede makahingi ng free scions? Thanks.
Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan puede po makahingi ng scions
Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan  send him some for a taste test. It might spell the difference. DA, it has been a long time this was brought under your noses. What gives?
Marami po nagtatanong: Ano ba hiningi ko sa DA tungkol sa Mangoming?  Hindi naman po para mapagkitaan o para magkaroon ng limpak limpak na salapi.  Ang Mangoming po ay bigay ng Panginoon para dito sa ating bansa,  para magkaroon ng libreng source of Vitamin C ang mamamayan na Filipino.   Ayaw kong patolan ang mga kuro-kuro na baka kaya hindi kumibo for almost 10 years ay dahil may natatakot na maging ka competion ang mga malalaking "DAMBUHALANG" mangga Mangoming in the market.  Bakit negosyo, profitability, economic benefit, export viability etc...lang ang nasa isip? Hindi ba importante ang contribution ng mango fruits sa HEALTH of the citizenry?  What about the needs of those ordinary Filipinos who are not into mango production/exportation business? They are no longer covered by the services of our Department of Agriculture?  Help in the propagation lang ang hiningi ko para konti ang wastage ng valuable Mangoming scions. Magkano lang ba Cost of propagation per seedling?  Isang seedbag lagyan ng lupa, taniman ng kahit anong buto ng mangga, palakihin hanggang maging graftable rootstock at dudugtongan. Kapag successful ipamimigay sa mamamayan ng LIBRE or at production cost or pwede pa-raffle to Prompt Payors of Real Property Taxes.  Or pwede rin that their regional, local DA and BPI offices will conduct ng FREE training workshop on Cleft grafting to ordinary mamamayan na interested makatanim ng Mangoming para sila na magpatubo ng kanilang sariling rootstocks at mag graft.  Is that asking too much?
Is Mangoming really a threat to the Philippine mango industry?  Perhaps, might be considered a "threat" kung ang iisipin sariling vested interest lamang.  Bakit? Hindi ba pwedeng iconsider as "blessing" na in the future na kapag naparami na ang makatanim pwede nang mapalitan ang mga old trees ng Mangoming therefore the Philippines will be known for its "DAMBUHALA NA MATAMIS PA" na mango sa buong mundo? Na kapag marami ng sobra na pwede i-export at pwede i-process while satisfied naman ang pangangailangan ng Vitamin C sa ordinaryong mamamayan.
What you say Mr da secretary??? any move???
What is Piniol doing in Moscow? Who's paying for his trip & vacation. Let our businessmen do that Piniol.
Tan Kenneth yup try to buy those mangoes high and sell it low to the masses.   What will happen to you?
Why isn't the government prioritizing the agricultural sector? Why are we still importing goods that we have an abundance of? We are supposed to be the leading innovators when it comes to agricultural advancement. I hope mas marami pang matulungang magsasaka dito sa atin. And innovate, innovate, innovate! Charmaine
Aica Veronica Dela Piedra
How do we market vco (virgin coconut oil)in moscow?
how about zambales mango
Venice Oracion oh, what better n comfortable life you are talking about, please?🙄
No quarantine requirements?
Cee Tee pinakurat meron jan?
Sir,director.manny pinol.how can i share my product,its about organic suplement.made of vegtables and fruit.
bakit walang comment ang secretary sa issue na to?  puro rising rising wala nman nangyyari... araw araw nagpapalabas ng article pero walang sagot sa hinaing ng karamihan!!!
Bry Macalma very true. What can DA do to help us farmers?
Ang copra pud unta
How about the copra sir?we are still looking forward for the price to rise up!break even lng or d kaya lugi pa kami sa pagod😟
How about coconut prices Sir? Please do something. Many coconut farmers from Davao Oriental are now starving. This is such a big disappointment and the irony is, it happened again during Duterte's administration. We were so pessimistic when you sat down as agriculture secretary. We never expected this worst thing to happen. But still, I am hopeful Sir. Hope you can do something about this as soon as possible.
How about palay prices at 15 to 16 per kilo? Bad news for palay farmers..
Ondo Pielago Santos naku po.. saan yan?
how about coconuts??
Sir. How about the coconut?
What about the problem in marina regarding the processing cop's that it take 15 D's or more?
How about copra?
How about the coconut oil boss???????
How about the palm oil prices secretary? Hope it will rise soon.
Copra sir kanus a motaas? ? ?
Mark Lumayag Villamor ay tagalog?
Maritess Gustilo Lumajen...true?
Joseph Giovanni V. Lumajen sa uban daw 28...bot unsay tinood..giteksan ko sa company 22.50 na daw kuha nila
No ventilation?
Meron po bang engineering design niyan in a smaller capacity, Baka pede pong kopyahin.
Sir we can have one of this in san roque nsamar for our seeds
36 outside 21 inside with out AC? if thats the case ayus to
Sir, what’s the capacity of this monolithic dome again with regards to palay storage?
You can not store grains without drying it first??? Where were all the ag engineers when this concept was being brought out?..? I hate to be a devils advocate
can you name the german office ? i work in that business and im interested to serve in as my wife is from there.
If we continuously allow our good neighbors to abuse us, our farmers will surely die! Have seen young farmers nowadays? Sino loko lokong bata susunod s knilang magulang n farmers n kayod kalabaw pero habambuhay pobre p rin? If you are a poor farmer now, are you going to ask your children to follow your footstep?
Talaga? Kahit pareho silang palm?
Pero nuong panahon ni pnoy ang mahal ng palmoil 5 t0 8pesos per kilo. Ang thailand ba huminto ng pagtatanim ng palmoil???wala...cla ngaun ang sumusunod sa Indonesia..at maraming pilipino adviser ( technician ang pinapirate sa Tacurong ng mga taga africa. )
Sir, can the DA have a campaign coconut oil use and health benefits.... Kulang po kasi ang promotions or push.
Better totally ban of palm oil of malaysia at Indonesia . Why  partial?
Why import? We have palm oil plantations here
does this mean a higher price in oil products in our market?
Koi Gart unsay masulti nmu ani tol hahaha
How to grant this kind of equipment?our farmers need this badly in mindoro.
pwede po ba secretary Manny Pinol. sir sa Matucay ,Allacapan,Cagayan.along Linao River as source of water.
Sir Denz Z Ortiz Ed Brisenio Leandro Leviste kayang kaya ito di ba? If only Govt would look within to find out kaya naman pala. Govt should invest on R&D. #SolarPowerPhilippines #RamPumpPhilippines
What do we do to qualify po?
Is it possible to procure this privately Secretary MannyPiñol?
Where to buy solor panel for my farm?
sir manny how much is the cost of 1 module and the area it can potentially irrigate? can we reconfigurate the size to just irrigate a hectare or below for veggie production? thanks po.
Samson Mate Daisy, I need one for our one has module. How do we reach the Vendor?
Daisy Loads how much will it cost for  constructing d design suited for veggie and/or hvc production? is the design free for interested persons?
Sir how can i request solar powered irrigation?
Cherry Correos Tibay - am I not entitled to my opinion?
Jordan Massagan - Fake News? 😂😂😂
Gary Jay Maramag ty atty but my prob.is how?
Kailan kaya na FARMERS dectate price of their products.
Malou Ambil Wala pa ba kau bay? Gawa kau resolution from PAFC request kau ng solar powered irrigation
Sec Puede ask copy re solar irrigation?
Why not put up common service facilities like cold storage to take up farmers produce? Clearly this facility is needed. Investigation takes time. The need is immediate.
Ritzzy Sipin Pascua hi can we be friends
so after the paperworks, did you commence the investigation?
