While It’s taking me a hard time to find a coco peat supplier for export in the Philippines 😔 I need a huge  amount of coco peat for export please. 🇵🇭🇨🇦
It's been 4 months since our copra workers has stopped harvesting our coconuts due to it's record lowest price and I can see it to continue in the months coming ahead. I for one cannot blame them but I am afraid that people will soon convert their coconut trees into coconut lumber if this will continue. It seems that the people in DA has no grip about what's going on in the Agri Industry. Photo ops and false hopes are not good enough for US farmers. We need something that will really put food on our table and support our family and our children's future.
D2 rin sa Samar ginagawa nlang lumber mga nyog sa sobrang baba ng COPRA.
Johnny Bobadilla its the world market, wag po tayo reklamo agad kung kongi lang alam.
Al-Musal Adobo You probably have other alternative earnings but for people like us who are totally dependent on our farm and with copra at 15 pesos per kilo and palay at 16 pesos per kilo we are also desperate kung papaano kumita at mabawi ang puhunan sa maintenance sa farm so don't tell me na wla o konti lang alam.
same here in capiz.daming nag stop n copra dahil sobrang baba ng copra dito..the 9-10/kilo lang dito ang buying ng mga copra buyer..15/kilo factory price na yan dito. sana tumaas na ulit sa May hopefully..or else kawawa yung mga coconut farmers dito..
Johnny Bobadilla kung kayo po ay magniniyog wala po dahilan para hindi magreklamo sa nangyayare sobra na po pahirap sa mga coco farmers puro pabor sa mga imported.asap po dapat ang aksyon
Whatever happened to the agreement last December between the Department of Agriculture and the country's oil mills ??  It was published that the oil mill companies agreed to buy at farm gate price of P24.. what happened ??
Cguro media mileage lang.. papogi points.. wala naman mabuting resulta.. sa halip mas bumaba pa ang presyo ng kopras..
Norberto Villagracia Saulon Jr. My point exactly...they've been giving us false hope with no TANGIBLE results.
Fely Bojo Para ano at andyan sila di sila ang magiging boses ng magsasaka?
Al-Musal Adobo its not about wotld market..hinayaan kc ng goberno pumasok ang produkti galing indonesia at malaysia...kung di nila pinayagan.di baba presyo ng oil ntin dahil s pinas lng..kya nmn ito bilhin..marami ng magkokopra ang bibitaw sa pagtatanim ng nyog kung walang gagawin aksyon ang DA.dapat unahin muna kapakanan ng mga pilipino bago pa mga dayuhang nag iimport ng coconut oil
Wala namang pakialam si manny piñol dyan.. alam kaya ito ni presidente? Paano kaya natin maipapaabot ito sa pangulo.
Louie Belmil Cuz hinayaan ng governo ang ibang bansa s oil importation pa pogi sila.d nila inisep n naghihirap ang mga coco farmers tulad nmin s eastern samar ito lang gbyerno pinahirap lalo ang mahihirap n un lng ang kinabubuhay
Paz Caballegan DA is currently the weakest link sa lahat ng departamento ng govt.
Feudalism since middle ages by oligarchs. OGMATIC. GO FED PARLIAMENTARY NOW OR NEVER!
Boe Sison Kathleen Carley April 16, 2017 ·  Change.org  ·  Palm oil is found in nearly everything we eat.When heated to high temperatures when in frying and such it creates cancer causing substances that we find in our foods. Not only is it responsible to the deforestation of our rainforests in order to plant the Palm Oil, the burning cause the release of carbon that stays in the rainforests for hundreds of years. There is nothing good to be found to our use of this oil. Only harmful side effects. We are losing the habitats of the Orangutan and the Sumatran Tigers and Elephants. Not to mention the abuse to the child labor and other indigenous people.
Its been 5 years which we stopped using palm oil in our household and yung products na binibili namin as much as possible walang palm oil as ingredient. I’m also educating my friends about the dangers of using palm oil both in health and the environment.  So people, if you love your health and wants to contribute for the environmental protection of ecosystems, stop using palm oil!
ang palm oil dili healthy according to the study here in germany its better coconut oil or vegetable oil
EU used a very shallow reason in imposing ban on palm oil import from malaysia n indonesia.
Sack the president and manny pinol not doing there job, support Philippine farms Sack them !!!
Unless there is an issue on Sanitary and Phytosanitary we cannot prevent the entry of these imported commodities. This is covered under the WTO Agreements and ATIGA ( Asean Trade in Goods Agreement). If there are dumping being happening of these commodities  the country can imposed safeguard duties. The best way to help our farmers is to buy Filipino coco products and other agricultural produce. It is a matter of information dessimination  thru advertisement the departments (DA & DTI) can do.
and pls stop the importation of coconut from indonesia.it really affects our local price. 😌😌
Pls ban the importation of Palm Oil  (and Canola oil also).  There are so much researches conducted that it is causing many health problems. We have a very good and healthy coconut oil.. It will help our coconut farmers and improve the health of many Filipinos...
part of the article --> Q: You say vegetable oils are hazardous to your health. What vegetable oils are you talking about?   Mainly, I'm referring to soybean oil, corn oil, safflower oil, canola, sesame oil, sunflower seed oil, palm oil, and any others that are labeled as "unsaturated" or "polyunsaturated." Almond oil, which is used in many cosmetics, is very unsaturated.  Chemically, the material that makes these oils very toxic is the polyunsaturated fat itself. These unsaturated oils are found in very high concentrations in many seeds, and in the fats of animals that have eaten a diet containing them. The fresh oils, whether cold pressed or consumed as part of the living plant material, are intrinsically toxic, and it is not any special industrial treatment that makes them toxic. Since these oils occur in other parts of plants at lower concentration, and in the animals which eat the plants, it is impossible to eat a diet which lacks them, unless special foods are prepared in the laboratory.
Rose Tan kaso nga maam.di naman sula kikita ng dolyar kung walang import...kung tutuusin tayo dapat ang kumakaan ng nga good harvest galing satin pero ang ginagawa gaya ng bigas pinapalitan ng NFA ang masarap nating ani..
Rose Tan its been a long excuse of those in the. Government  they say many imported products that causes over supply as mentiined there are safeguards but what they are doing kibit balikat
palm oil production is destructive to the environment. stop using palm oil. coconut oil is the best. healthier.
I do not understand why coconut oil based cooking oil like Minola are so expensive when the material is plentiful in the country. The Philippines is the world's number one/largest producer of coconut oil.
If we can produce a coconut cooking oil which sells at an equal or lesser price than palm oil then I would be glad to switch. Currently a 5 liter palm oil costs me 381 pesos. I haven't seen a Filipino made coconut cooking oil in the grocery store that I patronize.
the MARKETS change every now and then. Those who can quickly see the direction and adapt wins. Those who are laggards cant and lose. Coconut is touted to be a myriad-product crop. Palm Oil is not, and it produces only one :oil. If that were so, something is exceedingly wrong when a crop that can be developed, and is now selling myriads of products worldwide, is unable to empower and create wealth for poor struggling farmers, while its manufacturers gain so much from value-adding. The Palm oil seems to be doing well, even inundating our country with so much volumes, yet the coconut oil is being defeated. Something is truly wrong.
last i read, the coconut beats many crops in value-adding and food related items manufacturing. But nevertheless, why is it being beaten by palm oil? there are serious problems and inconsitencies to a farming system that allows this to occur. The Philippine agicultural system sucks, and it is hitting the poor farmers worse.
Rene Pamintuan It goes to show that the people from our DA lacks the ability to market and sell the benefits of our coconut products.
Rene Pamintuan sir. There are big food companies, restaurant chains claiming 100%-Filipino owned corporation. I am not sure whether they are believer/ user of Philippine produced cooking oil or not. Can you share your information regarding this?
Rene Pamintuan our govt lacks foresight! Ngaun lng sila kikilos? Why, why why???Sayang sweldo ng mga consultants s gobyerno ntin!
Walang kwenta mga nangangasiwa sa agrikultura at coconut industry.. pinapabayaan ang mga magsasaka ng niyog.. nasaan ang suporta ng gobyerno??
Rene Pamintuan yes it creates weaith but the traders not farmer priducer
The coconuts are priced so low, the competing palm oil price touted as the reason. The selling prices indeed are so low on palm oil most of our restaurants and institutional food processors buy and use palm oil as their number one preference. The PCA, having supported Palm Oil planting in the country, now faces questions of impropriety, and has no answer in what to do with plight of coconut farmers.  Serving two masters competing against each other, and PCA supporting both. Papano na coconut farmers, PCA?
Jeffrey John Lozano DA please please lang kawawa sarili nating farmers
Erwin Ricafort kailangan tlaga na makontrol price from farm gate to supermarkets pero tingin ko inevitable na mas mahal ang fil prod pero thing is kung 5 to 10 pesos na lang diff ng price i would endure ung 10 pesos n lng for the good of the country. Thats just me of course
Our Coconut Industry can really be called a “Sick Man” that really needs HELP. A lot of HELP actually.  With our Sec Manny at the helm, DA now lead Govt Agency to revive Coco Industry tog with a rejuvenated PCA, COCO stakeholders could finally have a sigh of relieve coming, may not be immediate but current hardworking individuals at DA & PCA, with help from other Govt Agencies ie DOE DTI BOC, solutions shd be forthcoming...   The challenges & circumstances demand immediate responses. Issues are all related & need an integrated & sustainable plan of action based on comprehensive, coherent, inclusive, relevant and visionary LONG TERM PLAN...  Lets all pray for our authorities to have the wisdom & prudence  to make timely & right decisions/actions...
And we are in trouble😊😊😊. Hays 50 yrs old napo ako. Laking mangniniyog. Ngayon lang po to ganito ka grabe.
Sa panahon ng papa ko po ser @joel aguilon nakaranas kami ng 5 per kilo at humantong sa pagputol ng lubi😊 pero ang naka worst lang ngayon mattad ang pasahod sa gumagawa ng kopra halos wala ng matira sa may ari....
Violet Teves parehas tayo ng predicament mam. Nag tanim napo ako ng saging pero 1 yr pa po to. So tiis talaga muna
D.A. should look for other by products of   coconut copra other than coconut oil
Wla nmn ito gngwa aksyon c sir manny piñol.puro papogi.pinapaasa nyo lng kmi mga coconut farmers.
Who controlled coco Levi fund? The coco farmers are economically in distress, why not release the fund to help the farmers? Whoever politicians or in Congress responsible of holding the release of that coco Levi must not be re-elected in government as in Congress/ senate. Those government workers have no empathy to the coco farmers. They must audited/accounted for where the fund is it standing at this time.
Why but imported oil, when the can produce more.
Sana e ban na lang all.. we can actually sustain, the farmers need guidance, and security na naay buyer, mahadlok lang gyur usahay mobuhi or motanum ug daghan kay usahay di lage mahalin, and siguro maka export pa ta sa laen countries kung gustohon..
The DA shall totally takeover the management of PCA and replace incompetent field personnel Toto Manny
Stop the photo ups start the coco cartels...hawak lahat nga mga negusyantejg intsik ang presyu ng coco products, the Gov. Turn thier blind eyes from the cartel.
Stop the coco cartel...
Jigs Dolores Ignacio...doing for what best? di nyo ma feel 'yan kc d kayo farmer...
Sir MannyPiñol the buying price of 20/kilo when will it be implemented? Because until this hour, CIIF Granex Iligan City Mill Gate price is 19.70/kilo..
It has been dumping palm oil 6 years ago. Noticed that the shelves of allsupermarkets are full ofpalm oil!
Why president Duterte did not act on oil component to B5. what he need to do is just order the DOE  and this coco farmers problem will be solve
they dump in phils because they know our govt is inutil unlike EU it protects its farmers
ECONOMIC SABOTAGE by Malaysia👎👎👎
Best thing to do is mag resign ka po....u Da is the worst office right.now.
change politics and prices will change too....thats politicizing
Hassim Diakem yes I totally agree with you Sir. Nagtataka lng po ako. Dba gusto ng gov't na magkaroon ng free trade importation sa rice? Para bumaba prices ng commercial rice sa market? Then here comes a good quality cooking oil, a lot cheaper than d current locally produced brands... now gustong tanggalin ng gov't sa Mercado... Ano po ba talaga ang plan mga HONORABLES?
change ayaw nila kasi barya lang change ...political dynasty at greed kasi e
Pwede b iban yan..eh signatory tyo ng wto d b
This is soooooo sad
BAN! or taxed them.
Pwerte n jud nmu kaluoy...
#dosomethingMRsecretaryPINOL!
Looy kaayu Ang mga Mag uuma te Uyst Huhuhu!
Earl Cordero I hope this is not just all talk..
Sir manny laht po tlg bagsak presyo kahit kamatis ngayon binibili lng ng 40 isang box dna po per kilo per box na tlg...hayyy grabe sobra tlg ano nang mangyayari sa ganitong bentahan
Sir MannyPiñol   San Occidental Mindoro   5  nalang ang Presyo ng Sibuyas kawawa mga farmers hinde maka bayad sa utang
Sana di maabuse ang coop.. Minsan coop ba ang mapanamantala.  Walang ipinagkaiba sa private sector. I would rather give the control to thw gov.
sir MannyPiñol im husband of rose aniñon RenzyRhex Aniñon Domingo dati niong staff sa gov office sa amas, dito sa amin ngaun sa san jose occ mindoro  13 pesos nlng ang kuha smin per kilo,,
Naneth Alaba haha tama. 3-5 per kilo sa amin. hinayaan nalang namin malanta mga tanim na kamatis
magbay kanwling po occ. mdoro. P10-8 nlang price. dto s amin mgsaysay occ.mdo. d p naani.. bka 5 pesos nlng dn pg umani kmi.
Cris Consuegra subra naman yan 5 nalang ahente ka siguro kaya ganyan ka mag comment sa.ngayon 14 per kilo pa dito sa san jose
Cherry Orbita Tividad kaya nga aa totoo lang ngayon mag nagsasalandra dito sanpinsan ko 14 pa ang kuha nila ahente siguro yang nagsasabi na 5 nalang
Rodlfo Gabor sir, taga San Jose po ako at 8 pesos po ang kuha ng mga buyers dto wala hong halong kwento. Kung 14 pesos po ang kuhaan, maari po bang malaman kung cno po ang kmukuha sa ganung halaga dahil may kakaani po kming cbuyas na tinaraan ng 16 pesos last week pero tinakbuhan ng buyer dahil daw bumagsak ang presyo, ipapalipat ko po jn sa buyer nyo. Salamat po.
Ninya Marie taga iloilo daw ito maam yong kumuha nga dito sa.pinsan ko at don sa pamangkin ko bukas ang bunot don sa pamangkin ko
Ninya Marie yong patanim konnga ayaw naman ibigay ng tao ko kaya naka storage nalang siguro
Cris Consuegra sir kausap ko lang kanina ang hvcdp coordinator namin sa Bulalacao Or Mdo ang reject 8-10.00 ang good ay 18-20.00 huag nyo naman masyado takutin ang mga farmer, pls... tulungan nalang natin kong may maitulong tayo kung wala magpahinog nalang kayo...
Mark Tolentino Pure Force- Media PF Dispatcher please make sure this report reaches Sec EFP
Rodlfo Gabor  ALitaytayan murtha 5.  8  ang presyo    pano  na  nila mapag aaral mga anak ng famers kong ganyan kalakaran sa bansa natin    Hoooooooooo.
ang provlema iz not rocket science kaso kahut may madaling solution kaso ang mahirap na solusyon ang guzto mangyari ng DA or bka wla talga zolusyon.sos maryosep kung gNon lng aan DA officials natin eh dapat magrwsign nlng hwag kapit sa pwesto.lumang tugrugin na yang im serving at the pleasure of the appointong power. nahihiya lng si prrd kasi not involving corruption pero alam niya wlang progress na nangyayari sa agriculture sector
identified naman ang mg areA kung saan nagpoprodu e ng mga gulay  oh bakit ayaw bimili ng DA ng mga ten wheelers at sila bumili lahat at wlang private traderz na payagang bumili directa sa farmers.doon sila bumili sa Govt .para uniform ang presyo.napakaayos ng fti j8 mar os pero bakit ayaw gayahin mangagagaya nlng ayaw pa nahihiya pa eh qla namangaeoffer na magandang solusyon
Bakit sa palengke 5php isang sibuyas.. kamatis 2pcs 5php..
Cris Consuegra 5php po ang isang sibuyas sa palengke.. expected ko nga mura kc palengke, un pala mahal din.. kamatis 2pcs 5php..
MannyPiñol sir ang price po ngaun dto sa occ.mdo.8 po ang big..13 ang pickles..4. po ang maliliit..aq po ay tga magsaysay occ.mdo..sana mapansin nyo po.
@Romeo Campos you're willing to invest? If so it means you should be able to afford for the training and other needs if you really know what you're doing and have the money for it.
Rodlfo Gabor sir papuntahin nyo po dto sa mgsaysay buyer nyo kung 14 ang kuha.madami kmi ibibigay khit 100tons po.basta 14 ang kuha.kmi n mgbigay sau ng back 10.kung yan kuha ngaun..
MannyPiñol dto k s neuva ecija mag libot manny pinol.bka dto k mbato ng cbuyas tignan u mga bukid nmin puro cbuyas at ng presyo npababa....subukan u mag libot dto neuva ecija para mkita u cbuyas
Rodlfo Gabor cino po abg bumibili ng 14
This kind of practices of big time traders is really economic sabotage... A law should be passed punishing those involved in economic sabotage that they will be jailed, striped of their properties and confiscated in favor of the government...
It is crime against humanity to let all those onions and tomatoes🍅to rot when it could have fed millions of people and made them healthy.
David James Rubillos prob sa nationalization is the highly subsidized products... if power and telecom pwede common tower at cable govt ang mag operate. Mag rent Lang ang private.. kailangan rin I promote ang free enterprise and entrepreneurship
Time to finally dismantle the cartels and link farmers to consumers more directly by limiting the number of middlemen and other people at the middle of the agricultural value chain by empowering the farmers to do functions such as trading, storage and marketing aside from improving planting, harvesting and post-harvest techniques and technology.
It has been this way since manny manny money years ago. The solution is very simple yet the government did nothing much. Is the people in government in connivance with the buyers.
waiting for Death Penalty
FINE+imprissionment+canning = law abiding citizen
Onion farmer ako from mindoro. 26 cans na binhi ng red pinoy tinanim ko at an area of almost 3 hctars. Half i harvested feb 20 and the other half last mar.10. Ive sold all my products but too bad, total proceeds are not enough to cover for my expenses. The reason; mababang presyo! 18 per kilo on first harvest and 13 per kilo on 2nd harvest. Heartless traders and storage owners are convenient entities for DA to blame but in reality, the faults should be pointed to DA and sec. Pinols alipores for allowing too much imported onions get into RP. As early as january, bumabaha na ang sibuyas sa palengke, but now, DA blames the traders ang cold storage operators? What a farce! Privately owned cold storages are rented out basing from owner's business decision. They will most likely lease their facility to volume costumers who came early than to small onion farmers who came later. Also, DA can always dictate their will on publicly funded cold storage facilty. Why then blame the storage owners?
these economic saboteurs, can we hang them in public
Let them have a whipping Sec . Manong Manny!!!
This article should have been confidential for a moment while PCC and NBI are at work so that they can catch those basterds.
same with rice can the NBI investigate also..14 sariwa to 50 pesos price of local rice?
Grabe talaga ang neglect the government in the past. We have these Cartels that cause suffering to people but previous government just didn’t mind because most likely some if not most of them benefited from these cartels.  They have become so powerful and weld power from inside the government. Now it’s a difficult task for current admin to break them!
I raid din mga warehouses nang imported.  Until now marami pa stocks mga Chinese which urged them not to buy our local produced.  Over importation po tayo.
Now we know! Can't the government forcibly have these cold storage  opened and checked?  Can't the government forced to use the unutilized space of cold storage to store these produce  and just pay them storage fees?  Now we know it is these traders taking all the profit without a sweat!  Now we know why there are npa's . If the government does not care to intervene  to support these farmers  they will breed more disgruntled farmers that the kaliwa will exploit !
There should be a law in trading in food production. Itr true that most cold storages have prejudice to the big traders.
China yan, they flood every market in the world.
these economic saboteurs, can we hang them in public
too late actions.. almost all of the onion farmer sold their harvest at the lowest price you could even imagine because they can't put their harvest at the storages forcing them to sell it at prices dictated by the buyer having access to cold storages . leaving our farmer empty hand and hungry children.  #justiceforpilipinofarmer
Mark Arman Aquino tama. Too late kakainis
Mark Arman Aquino bakit too late sa panahon ni panot walang ganyan?
Thats very true and only thing that they can get a fake news just like this puro pekeng accomplishment lang ang kaya nilang gawin pero ung mga tutuong magsasaka walang tutuong tulong puro press released at fake news accomplishment lang ang kayang ipakita sa social media scammer na gobyerno anti poor
Tessie B. Tekla sinong ngsabi?kung anti poor makapabenta kaya noon sa maynila ng produkto
Ana Liza Gorne hello presyo ng sibuyas ngayon sa mismong magsasaka 12 lang per kilo
Ana Liza Gorne wag kang uto uto
Tessie B. Tekla kasalanan ba nya ang ng approved nyan ay may kasalanan..sa amin kapos ang ganyan,mas mabuti may maibenta sa aming lugar wala
Lahat ng produkto pag over supply bumababa ang presyo.. Kahit anung produkto.
noon pa yan nangyayari buti ngayon iaaksyonan maganda dyan 5 months ban every harvesting by season
Tessie B. Tekla anti.poor 'ka mo? Sigurado ka ba? Bulag at bingi ka ata.
Ano pala gusto ninyo di na lang aksyonan kasi late na? Sa sobrang galing ninyo bakit di kayo mismo gumawa ng aksyon?
ang isipin mo tekla(troll kb?)unti unti ng nalalaman ang mga kabulastugan ng past admin esp ang admin ng abnoy mo
Tessie B. Tekla kaya nga ipapatigil na ni DA Manny Piñol ang importation kasi sapat naman ba ang ani ng sibuyas natin
Amob Salaya  sir 8 nalang per kilo..di ba late ? Hehe.
Ang puhunan sa pagtatanim ng sibuyas  15k per lata tapos bibilhin 8 pesos per kilo ? Saan hustisya?  Luge na. Nkakatamad na uling magpatanim sa susunod bwesit kulang pa sa pagod.
Mark Arman Aquino ,Tama..ako naka benta na 12 pesos lng per kilo..
Nerline Silloren yun nga po ang masakit over supply n nga nagppasok p ng import nasaan ang hustisya?
sobrang baba ng bilihan Peru pumunta k ng palengke 60 per kilo.
Amob Salaya amob salaya nung nakaraang sibuyasan hnd sapat kasi nga naarabas o na army worm ang sibuyas naming magsasaka pero pag hnd nauod sapat ang ani kay Noynoy noon laging maganda ang presyo ngaun nman bagsak presyo kahit kamatis 2 isang kilo kay Noynoy walang ganyang presyo
Nerline Silloren cno po ang may kggwan ng oversupply ng onion, kng totoo mn, local farming b or untimely importation
Corruption$! Poor the people. Buy the people. This is not an isolated case. From Rice, Copras, to PDAF!
Wala pong over supply... sabay sabay lang nag harvest which is normal kase harvesting season nga. I bet the total harvest will be not enough until the next harvest season. Baka mag import pa tayo. May mga mapagsamantalang trader lang talaga. Sana pinabawi man lang mga farmers ngayon kase last year sobrang lugi dahil sa peste. Ngayon presyo naman tumira kaya lugi pa rin. Sana magkaroon ng systema at patakaran to stabilize our farm produce buying prices. Set a buying price range before the start of the planting season then ENFORCE the price range during the harvesting period. Kaylangan lang pagaralan what will be the lowest and highest price based on production output levels based on worst, average and best conditions. There should be no case na the lowest price be lower than the average cost of production.
Marc Dizer Caoili It’s the same with other commodities. The government should buy produce such as rice, corn, coconut and not traders union who controls pricing of most commodities that are locally produce by dictating price of this produce at harvest time. knowing that most farmers are hand to mouth only and doesn’t have the funds or clout to fight the monied capitalist. Pilipino farmers doesn’t earn enough to put food in the table when what they put away runs out, they are force again to borrow from Indians (5/6) and other capitalist (5/6) to get them thru until harvest again. Local farmers have no protection from government agencies that should guard against manipulations. They only act after the fact.  Then this assholes imports from foreign sources to flood market to justify lowering prices of local produce. Kawawang magsasakang Pilipino. Alipin sa sariling bayan.
Marc Dizer Caoili Si Piñol ang napakalaking PESTE sa mga magsasaka. May hangin sa ulo! Panay palusot ang mga explanations niya!
Please include our garlic in this endeavor. Our native ones taste much better even if smaller than Taiwan varieties. Gosh, they come to us heavily bleached.
Mercy Viray Admana ma'm ang production po kasi natin ay kulang hanggang anihan kaya pag sept na nagmomonitor na po ng mga storage ang bpi kong may stock pa. At kong ilan po ang kulang hanggang anihan un po ang bibigyan ng permit ng importation. Pwera nalang kong ginagawan talaga ng kawalanghiyaan ng mga walang hiya...
If we admit that this is its inalienable programming, it stands to reason that consumers must be very smart not to be sucked into that black hole. All relationships take two to tango.
Thanks po Secretary Manny Pinol. Alisin na ninyo ang Chinese onion bulb cartel pati sa rice. They are getting richer but our farmers are getting poorer. It's high time to think and help the poor folks not that the rich who sit  in their big mansions.
If your really have any kind of fastidiousness on your part, please RESIGN. Damage has been done already mr secretary, let the expert handle the situation.
Ivan Sebastian ulol..!
Sana after the investigation cartel should be on jail not only for onion but other primary commodities of poor Pilipino Farmers
Sigrid Nds Dickerson sana madam kaso yong mga buyer dito sa atin ganon parin ang.mga bili nila
Ferdinand Cruz 15 yrs ago 10 pesos n ang price till now ganun pa den
Syndicated group iyan,  smugglers ng bawang, onions at iba pa agri products from China, kaya affectado ang local farmers natin dahil lagi lugi.
This order came too late. 90% of onion farmers already sold their produce. Sana the ban on importation was issued earlier and lifted only after farners sold their produce. Very ironic, even idiotic, because it will be the traders who will benefit from this. 90% of local onions are now in trader's hands and the traders will be the ones rejoicing in event onion price goes up as a result.
Why cant it be done also on rice.
Sir may i also comment about the price palay..why is it that the buying price of palay here in tabuk city is 12p/kg..while the price of rice inthe market is 40p/kg.. Please look into this problem..send trusted men to come and see this problem..namumulubi na ang mga magsasaka..prices of farm inputs are exhorbitant while output are so bancrupting..
Sana imbistigahan din kung bakit sobrang mura ang presyo..baka naman may nagcocontrol sa presyohan..
Wala tayo magawa kung d magsakripisyo madami ang supply ng bgas sa palengke, kaya mababa ang demand ng palay naten kaya bagsak presyo ang palay naten, gawa ng pinaspasan isabatas ang rice tariffication law, matakot ang gobyerno sa patuloy na pagtaas ng inflation rate. Dapat tulungan tayo ng Sir Manny P mo maregulate ang presyohan ng palay, sa php 17 -18 per kilo skin dry masaya na magsasaka, pababahin ang presyo ng daily wage, presyo ng fuel oil, presyo ng farm inputs na nd naman kayang pababain na to
Bat ngaun lang stop onion importation
mam dito po sa Mindoro umabot sa 8 pesos to 10 pesos halos hingiin n lang nila
Ung kpitbhay po nmin binili ung sibuyas nia 5.50 lng per kilo..nhiya p ung buyer n hingiin. Hiningi nlang sana..tas pag pumunta k ng palengke aalukin k ng sibuyas tatlo piraso sampumpiso.. gisa nla kming mga farmers sa sarili nming sibuyas..
Heads will roll. Let those responsible be held answerable. The damage they have caused to EACH and EVERY farmer must be compensated for considering the years of short-changing they have made against the farmers.
I think it's too late because most farmers in Central Luzon already harvested their crops, sold to prices 8-10 pesos per kilo. Yung iba pa nga raw pinapautang na makuha lang at para hndi mabulukan. Nagpunta kami sa mga storage facilities sa Palayan 2 weeks ago, puno na raw😒 My heart bleeds for our farmers😭😭😭
Action speaks louder...cold storage those eggplants and tomatoes before they got rotten and thrown away. Why wait? Lack of planning that's why.
So sad for the farmers..late action..but i hope ..matutulubga. pa rin cla ng gobyerno..
Earliest onion planting season starts by the month of October, and import permits and licenses for onion importations were cheered to a stop via fb post made last March 22?  That was too late. It has no effect on the current situation.
Same goes with Palay (rice) and garlic. Locally produced prices are being controlled by cartel and all they did is investigate and investigate and investigate but the cartel remains.
March 23, 2019        Marked red on our calendar the date wherein onion produce by Novo Ecijanos and other provinces has suffered much loss due to unfavorable price with the calvary on how and where to sell it.        "Mabibili o mabubulok", quoted is the sad truth that haunts our present onion farmers. Morons are those who did not know that onions are highly perishable if not handled or stored properly right after the harvest. Buyers are difficult to be found, as if there is a sort of STOP BUYING, which made it impossible for farmers to immediately dispose their harvest, unlike the previous years.       The markets were seemed closed for our local onion harvest.  Consequences are, the surge of agents which offers storage spaces to prolong the shelf life of the products, until the time wherein justifiable price per kilogram and availability of buyers insued. Storage are additional expenses on the part of the producers, and only few people can afford this option.       What are the leading causes of these phenomena?        This is not the first time that farmers suffer for not being able to earn enough income through their harvest. This law on supply and demand are not being used as a tool,  but as a reason to explain the cause of disappointments and hunger every year.       The near Senatorial elections had diverted the attention of current officials, as well as the public and private sectors, which had caused them to neglect the duties they held on their current positions.        Significantly, the Department of Agriculture which have the principal authority to provide efficient and immediate response, investigation and monitoring on the cause and effect of this problem had done nothing until now. Where should we ask for action? So slow.  DA's failure encourage people to abandon agriculture.       We want profit from our hard work. We work hard to live. We just want better lives.
Now lang yan kase malapit election but did they promise for focusing the local agri developmente lalo sa pricing po
Time to go after the traders and importers who, along with their cohorts in government, artificially manipulate the supply of onions, garlic and other agricultural produce, especially those who use storage and processing facilities for such illicit purpose.
its too late sir money..😁
Imported onions full of poison.
Basta unbridled capitalism may cartel...
Too late actions... 😣😣
Too late....
too late sir
Resign!!!
Too late!!!!
Pinol resign
Then please do something with the low buying price of cup lumps since it directly affects the farmers and tappers.
Wala ka kabalo ser Kung unsa kalisod SA bukid mgkopras!!,mypa si noynoy SA una abot pa ug 50 Ang prisyo SA kopras
Sir bakit po mahal ang coconut oil at yung farmer ng coco ehh mura nah masyado ang copra..Ang demand ng Coconut abroad eehh ang taas naman..My sister is in Canada and they used coconut oil there in packs..For cosmetics and for cooking..bakit naman napakamura ang bilihan ng copra,i cant understand..kawawa naman po coc farmer natin..alam niyo po vah nah pakonti nlng coconut farm natin sa pinas kasi po they let banana plantation lease their land and cut down coconut trees..so sad na talaga
20? sana naman, lagi kaming shorted ah
Manny Piñol, Sec, pwede po bang i-ban ang importation ng palm oil? Or at least impose a huge tax on palm oil imports? Palm oil imports have killed the local copra industry.
Boe Sison nasisira habitat ng mga monkeys, or ibang hayop. Dahil puputolin ang mga puno, papalitan ng palm tree.. Research mo about jan sa google or youtube.. Kahit sa ibang bansa gusto nila iban ang palm tree.. Kawawa mga hayop..
Boe Sison palm oil is contributing to a lot of deforestation in Malaysia & Indonesia! Palm oil monoculture is a recipe for environmental degradation!
Tama lalo na ang canola and other vege oil very toxic talaga yan. Yan ang sinabi nang visitors namin from Aus isa sa founder of Young Living Essential oils sabi niya suerte daw ang Pinas na may coconut oil at ito ang pinaka safe gamit pang cooking. At mula noon tinapon na namin yung natirang canola and other vege oil.
Dito sa amin, Cabadbaran City, buying price of copra is only 4 php per kilo ..😥
Sec Pinol, at the end of the day it's not the FB article posted, the sacrifices, the sleepless night, the effort we made as a public servant that counts. Rather, it is the result of those efforts that uplift the lives of Filipinos that count. As long as the farmers are crying due to low buying price of copra and palay, what DA has been done won't matter. I know Rome wasn't built in a day.   But, if the end brings me out wrong, ten angels swearing I was right would make no difference.   I am still your supporter, please be warned🇵🇭🇵🇭🇵🇭
Dearest sec manny piñol please protect coconut oil. Suggest a Law in congress to regulate the influx of imported cooking oils or other oil that compete our local coconut oil.
Ban the importation of palmoil they are killing the copra farmers.
sir in Europe we pay for pure coconut oil for 200 grams almost 5 euros... this has been consumed here and advertised as healthy nutritional addition to daily food ... why can't the Philippines organized and push through a FAIR TRADE for our farmers? in Germany shops offer FAIR TRADE PRODUCTS OF THE SO CALLED THIRD WORLD COUNTRIES..IT is a seal that promotes fair prices for farmers.. I myself buy  these products with FAIR TRADE SEAL  cause I know it is giving farmers the price what they deserved . ( if it is already existing perhaps it should be more promoted)  and why can't our schools promote coconut buko juices at schools and public government gatherings instead of patronizing  alien companies like coke etc..   @MannyPiñol
Siguro kc di tyo kasama sa european union, tas masama pati imahe natin sa ibng nasyon.  Sa china nalang natin e benta total un nman idol natin.
Why insist on copra while we can produce high value products such coco virgin oil,  coco flour,  coco milk,  health drink,  coco fiber and peat for export if we go into an integrated coco processing plant in areas where coconuts are dominantly growing.  Pls explain????
Because they keep on protecting the oil millers/businessmen. Ayaw nila gumawa/kumuha ng ibang investors na makakapag bigay ng competitive price. Dito samin meron desiccated coconut plant. Pero baka mag stop buying narin sila due to high supply. Kasi nagshift yung mga copra buyers to selling of coconut directly sa planta para sa desiccated coconut.
at the end of the day u dont dictate the price.. better work on how u help consumers.. buying copra at 20 php per kilo but selling 130++ php in local market..
Palm Oil export is killing local copra business. Please consider this. Or impose huge tax against it.
Not enough really considering the cost of preparation compared to coconut juice
Secretary Pinol please help our coconut farmers....
Still not implemented here in lanao del norte.
If you cant do something let others do it . Resigned
Noli Gapate hiyang hiya naman si Sec Piñol sa inyo po. You should realize what he has done for the Agri dept and this one cannot be done overnight.
Cheanie Tan-Salacop sorry but yan ang tama. Im sure you know what he did he imported hog and chicken meat flooded in the wet market, rice and now palm oil. He is killing the farmers slowly. Like the buying price of coconut 2.50 or 5. Per kg how the farmers survive. Read the coments and cry out of the peolple. Hindi sya maawa nyan. Kung wala sya magawa na paraan dapat wAla sya dyan na pwesto.
Cheanie Tan-Salacop agree po ako can't be done overnight but he was there since 2016 right. Since then price of coconut going down until now worse priced of whole coconut ever at 2.50 per kg. More than 20million poor farmers crying out begging for help to DA Sec but nothing happened. I will appreciate if you have access and tell him to help more than 20 million poor farmers.
If the gate price at the oilmills is Php20/kg then it is Php8-10/kg by the traders in marinduque. The main reason why my fellow kababayans in the island province stop processing their coconuts to copras and yet government agencies have not reach out to the farmers.
Do something mr sec your administration is the worse admin ever in coconut industry. Wa ka maulaw ana sege lang ka estorya
Supply and demand problem, and competition
Secretary Pinol,  cocosugar & vco are two products with high export potential.however it's not moving much in our country or these products can't compete with international market. This needs government intervention.
pag sure diha uy secretary wala kang alam sa copra farmer. halata man.
Rice Farmers and Copra farmers , and Small scale businesses like rice retailers and palay traders are made poorer because of the new government policies...
Sir we cannot survive with P20/kg. Please help.
Please allow our raw material products to be exported. Allow China to export our raw coconut. That was the best competition on the market that I have experience. That way you can help us farmers. Stop protecting the businessmen/oil millers in the Philippines. It is futile to continue on a system where in farmers are the one being sacrifice </3
Not good after long time..20.pesos.fixed to 30.Sec.Pinol.
There is an economic sabotage with the price of coconut! Kill the oligarchs
change politicians and traders who likes to make us poorer....
Poor ,so sad were in hunger
Still not enough
not enough thn before... ths sir
Then do something!!
HOY !  GISING !  SIR   PINOL !  IT'S   YOUR PROBLEM  TO FIND SOLUTIONS  HOW TO IMPROVE  THE COCONUT INDUSTRY.  BANGON  PILIPINAS !!!!!
stop importing palm oil.
NOT ENOUGH JUD!
😭...!
Not enough😑
Sad
"The Department of Agriculture (DA) will provide Onion Farmers Associations with working capital to be used in buying their MEMBERS'' produce."....para lang daw sa members' ng association..paano pala tayong mga individual na hindi member???🤨😔
After buying what? Ipapabulok? Farmers are not entreprenures
Mr. Piniol, i think wala kang knowledge about agriculture so be kind to step down and let your president choose the one who is knowledgeable para mapalakad naman ang dept. Of agriculture nang maayos. Kawawa na kasi ang mga farmers.
Justice for onion farmers
March 23, 2019        Marked red on our calendar the date wherein onion produce by Novo Ecijanos and other provinces has suffered much loss due to unfavorable price with the calvary on how and where to sell it.        "Mabibili o mabubulok", quoted is the sad truth that haunts our present onion farmers. Morons are those who did not know that onions are highly perishable if not handled or stored properly right after the harvest. Buyers are difficult to be found, as if there is a sort of STOP BUYING, which made it impossible for farmers to immediately dispose their harvest, unlike the previous years.       The markets were seemed closed for our local onion harvest.  Consequences are, the surge of agents which offers storage spaces to prolong the shelf life of the products, until the time wherein justifiable price per kilogram and availability of buyers insued. Storage are additional expenses on the part of the producers, and only few people can afford this option.       What are the leading causes of these phenomena?        This is not the first time that farmers suffer for not being able to earn enough income through their harvest. This law on supply and demand are not being used as a tool,  but as a reason to explain the cause of disappointments and hunger every year.       The near Senatorial elections had diverted the attention of current officials, as well as the public and private sectors, which had caused them to neglect the duties they held on their current positions.        Significantly, the Department of Agriculture which have the principal authority to provide efficient and immediate response, investigation and monitoring on the cause and effect of this problem had done nothing until now. Where should we ask for action? So slow.  DA's failure encourage people to abandon agriculture.       We want profit from our hard work. We work hard to live. We just want better lives.
I yearn to read the blue print for the Philippines agriculture industry - where expenses and expected results are posted and published - so sad! There are many reports studies ( expenses) already published but action is nowhere to be found ! Sad ☹️
can we convert irrigated rice-lands & plant onions? like copra, palay is now too cheap!!!
Rene Pamintuan please work on it. The DA will finance the cold storage leasing. We have to give these traders a dose of their own medicine.
Let the experts hNdle this and a good expert is Rene Pamintuan
Rene Pamintuan with your respect sir in my own view i dont think it will succeed, ganun pa rin ang manyayari kung sino ang may malaking kapital siya pa rin ang maki-kinabang. Maganda sana yang binabalak niyo kung direct to the farmers kaso malabong manyayari yan.
Boladas pa more kawawang farmers
Gloria Ili Segaya Nueva Ecija  kinokontrol ng mga cartel  mga sibuyas  nabubulok  lng
Ernesto Bernardo kaso  un pagkakaisa  nga  ang  wl minsan  unahan  sa storage  kung  baga
Ayusin ng national level systema ng agriculture all the way down sa municipal to barangay,spend ...to develop a system that the traders cant help but...
Right the only way to help farmers buy their products like onions
Sir Ipatokhang niyo narin yang mga sabotaging traders they are not anonymous.
Sec. Manny pls deputize lgu DA office and With DTI ang Provncial DA to monitor and apprehend doon sa mga imported Onion and other products. Coordinate with PNP for pulis power . Too match subsidise will be losing money in your office. Create a task force onion . Dakpanay kg put in prison. Fyi
Sir. Maawa po kau s mga farmers stop buying pa rn sibuyas
Ganyan ang modus ng mga rice cartels.  Manipulate the supply and reap the profit from the common people.  Mga leche!!!
Diada Lubko , do not compare UAE price to Philippine price. Pag ganun ang nangyari,wala ng magsasaka sa Pinas sa mahal ng production cost. Try nyo po magtanim ng onion para malaman nyo
#SecPiñol, mawawalan kasi sila nang pondo para sa calamity funds tuwing el niño... obviously, they don't want to uplift the life of our farmers for their own benefits.
To gain control, you have to "poor the poeple"
very simple solution ....PALITAN ang bureaucrat politician....
fucking crabs... cook them!
Sec. Manny, those critics might have the backing of CPP/NPA or LP, and also rice cartels.  After all, they earned billions of pesos from the rice manipulation two years ago. They will not go down quitely, but slowly those critics are becoming irrelevant.
Let them Mr. Secretary..time will come they will beg your office to have that project implemented in their vicinity.... Ngayon di pa nila nakikita yang benefits kasi bitter pa sila sayo...
Sa too lang Alam ko yan . sarcasm po yan ang word lagi ng past admin ..Kasi andito ako KSA farm land area .
Talhal Bai ulo u painitin u
Aaron Jhon Calilap sana nga po dumating ang oras na yun.. Diko kasi minsan maintindihan ang takbo ng pagiisip ng mga kurakot sa government.. Gustong gusto nila ang pera Samantalang ang nagbibigay halaga sa pera ay ang mga bagay or things na gawa ng tao.. Uutusan sila ng mga oligarch ng ipapagawa sa kanila at kapalit nito ay salapi tapos ang mangyayari paglipas ng ilang months tataas ang bilihin at bababa ang value ng peso at dahil mababa na ang value ng peso yung pinang suhol sa kanila mabilis mauubos tapos magpapagamit ulit sila at mangyayari ulit ang dating pababa ng peso kung baga para silang adik pagtaas ng pagtaas ang dosages hanggang maperwesyo na ang buhay sambayanang Filipino.. tulad ng nangyayari ngayon nakikita na ang problema at nakikita na ang pangmatagalang sulosyon ang gagawing sagot sa problema pang remedyo lang hinde pang matagalang sulosyon..
tama..kayo pero Hindi sana ganito ang takbo ng sting bansa..meron na tayong mabuting pangulo...pero ang kanyang mga gabinite ay mga utak oligarch
Dito sa Mindanao lalong naghirap ang mga magsasaka dahil sa murang copra tig P10 pesos ang kilo..pero ang mantika napakamahal umabot pa ng P80 ang kilo...dapat isa rin yan bigyan ng pansin ng ating Sec.ng agriculture na si pinol...Hindi natin dapat isisi sa ating kalikasan na nagkrisis ang supply ng pagkain dahil    shortage ng tubig...malaking kalukuhan po yan...bakit natin isisi sa ating kalikasan ang ganitong problima???ang dapat nating sisihin ay si DA secreatary  ...kung paano nya maresolva ang krisis ng mga farmer dito sa Mindanao...Hindi yung kalikasan.,.dahil ang ibigay sa atin ng dios ay ikinabuti ng tao....kaya hwag tayong maging utak oligarch o yellow tae,...salamat..people of mindanao
Aaron Jhon Calilap sana mabalik ang  mga dpat s gobyerno,pra tumigil n pgpphirap s mga filipino
EXTREME CAUTION doubt the use of Nuclear Reactors in the PHL.  If there is a Nuclear Disaster in the PHL, no one will want to work to clean it up.  The consequences will be catastrophic scourge that will stay for centuries.        Japan wants to rebuild near Fukushima disaster. A shattered town tells different story.  https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/asia_pacific/near-site-of-fukushima-nuclear-disaster-a-shattered-town-and-scattered-lives/2019/02/02/0dea7886-1e8c-11e9-a759-2b8541bbbe20_story.html?utm_term=.b77d18d546fc
Peter Sinatra Advance thinking ka,,!!! Meron na yan na design,,!! Di tanga mga enginer na basta nila gagawin kung may piligro.  Bilyong peso ang project na iyan, di basta basta.
Bro Fhlo Payoc tama ka ang nuclear power plant ay isa sa mga magagandang proyekto ng ating bansa at maaring sagot sa mga crisis sa kurenti, tubig at marami pang iba (if you don't know do some research).  But the real problem is not having a definite solution to this crisis, its the country's conglomerate corporations who are blocking this projects for their own greed of money/wealth in the service of there demon mammon. Have time to do some research about this country's biggest corpo's and who owns them!  This act regenerates way back in the time of golden discoveries era, where Tesla vs Edison war of ac/dc. Tesla's project wireless free energy/electricity, but block by corpo's of that time because it don't generate money!
Ayaw ni cory yan!  Kaya iboto ang otso!  Kz ayaw sa pagbabago!
Do not sell govt forests to real estate developers
Clarita Carlos that its ok brod but for sustainable n commercial production medyo hindi viable.
Clarita Carlos Surprisingly nothing on ‘green infrastructure’.  The narrative of Sec Piñol mentioned deforestation.  Nothing on watershed management.
Clarita Carlos be it noted that rice is not an aquatic plant...
Why are we not investing in a big way rainwater harvesting thru catchments or impounding ponds? There are four not only three elements for agricultural productivity: soil, sunlight, water, and genetics.
William Dar NIA has a list of strategic large impounding projects that DA has not implemented. I convinced  Sec. Alcala to pursue as these projects need 8-10years gestation such as the Jalaur dam to support 36,000has of rice in Iloilo. Sec  piñol not supporting  ..  Sec. Yap tried small water impounding projects. All gone. Isang flashflood lang, sira na.  Without impounded water to replenish many aquifer during dry season, no amount of solar powered irrigation is sustainable. We will have sink holes all over. Worse, these aquifers may be filled up by seawater😵
All could be done..set aside corruption in all any govt projects..act now.
sec. try to visit the deforested area in Suminot, Tampilisan, Zamboanga Sibugay and see how kainginiros destroyed the area.
when it rains it pours but we never save the pouring water.it just go to waste like flooding..
Government to buy out land made public or A and D  onerously within watershed area. There should be clear delienation of protected areas .  DENR to stop issuing land titles specially along bodies of water stream brooks and river.  Increase tax for lumber parang sin tax sistema. Prohibitive cost produce substitute for lumber
This should be one of the reasons for the Duterte administration to formulate and implement a comprehensive long-term water security plan that covers water resources management, and how effectively and efficiently use water by domestic, agricultural, commercial and industrial users.
Not only  water  Crisis  Sec  MannyPiñol  Philippines  could  FACE Massive  conversion of  Agriculture land owned by  Small  farmers   if low  price  of  Palay  will  prevail
i would rather say” poor management of the department of agriculture will lead to agricultural sabotage, importation of agri products and indebtedment of local farmers”...
too much plowing destroys soil structures and water holding capaity. causes water run off erroding soil nutrients and also increases greenhouse gases emittion resulting to higher field temperature lets practice perma culture and invite micro organism to our soil
RA 6716 which mandates the building of rainwater systems in every barangay should be strictly executed. Every Barangay should at least have rainwater tanks/containers/deep wells/canals.
no to conversion of agricultural to industrial, commercial , ky the more  ma shortage ta food securitu gd job Sir Manny
desal plants as well sir. you might want to take advantage of such tech for dual purposes. as potable and irrigation.
Ryan Carro de Fuego napakamahal ng equipt at operating n maintenance expenses nyan brod.magiging parang gold tubig sa atin nyan.
eveyyear may ulan at hindi lng basta ulan kungdi talgang baha kaso puro mga nganga ang mga govt officials natin mapalocal or natl.puro pera lng nasa utak.sos maryosep.pinagtatawanan lng tayo ng singapore.sa malaysia pa sila kumukuha pero hindi man nagkaproblema.tayo nasa pinas lng ang tubig pero pina aawayan pa.puntang ina talga.sa inabanga bohol lng kadami ng source ng tubig doon.deretso lng ng dagst yan.pero wla manlng govt officcials nagtap niyan para gamitin either irrigation or potable water sa mga syudad
libya wlang tubig per9 gumawa ng artifivial river connecting nile river ng egypt para lng magkatubig ang lupain nila.bakit nagawa?dahil may political will sila.tayo nganga lng puro nasa drawing board lng nakakahiya tlaga.na maiinis ka.nag tataas ng pinag sralan ng mga lintik pero simpling bagay hindi masulosyonan.it rwquires natl n locL govt action to f8x that provlem.ganon lng yan.pero kung puro publicity lng na may plano.pi.puro plano na yan.2019 na.kailan pato anging bansa ang pinas.puro plano parin.
Please issue an executive order to mandate mayors/bgy officials to implement rain harvesting projects.
Gloria Ili Segaya Ganun po dapat gawin ng lahat ng farmers pati schools para matuto ang mga bata.. sayang ang ulan gift from heaven. Ang tanging hurdle lang naman nun ay ang dengue and other mosquito borne diseases na dapat ma-address sa implementation.
NO to Land Conversion from agri/aquaculture to industrial/commercial
bohol has everything but due to poor governance bohol lacks something 😭
why not make it before....why now only that perils is on the way
LOUSY MANAGEMENT . . .
MannyPiñol it’s not the drought it’s the corruption. There’s no balance between cost (fertilizer, seed etc.) and product. Why people kinda don’t want irrigation? Because they have to pay actually...hefty amount. Hope before you propose your ideas (which is good actually) can you reevaluate as well the cost to the farmers...coz at the end ang farmers ang lugi...kayod kabayo wala kita!
Marilyn Tuscano Bulaay-Herrero, Kingnoel Peralta; yan po ang akala ko ngunit piling lugar lng yata hindi po lahat...
Marilyn Tuscano Bulaay-Herrero just because it’s free does not translate into an economically feasible and sustainable farming or crop production. There’s nothing free in a technical sense . Water or crop irrigation has always a cost  as direct or indirect farm inputs.
Marilyn Tuscano Bulaay-Herrero free irrigation po pero dito sa isabela late ng dating ang tubig almost 2 months sa original na schedule kaya pag inaabutan kami bagyo mas malaki pa nawawala...
Marilyn Tuscano Bulaay-Herrero free irrigation nga,, pero nasaan ang tubig..
Sir MannyPiñol free irrigation po sa lahat ng patubeg pro ang problima nman po ang NIA sa amin sa isulan sultan kudarat pinapabayaan na nila ang irrigation canal ma marumi...kagaya ng malapit sa amin ang canal puro lupa na at mga barado pa ang mga drainage...
MannyPiñol sir please do something about prices of fertilizers, 1,1OO per bag
Hindi nman pwede diritso na lahat ng gusto niyo mabigyan. it will took years para mabago lahat nag stastart plng tayo gusto niyo agad agad. Kaya vote wisely para walang local corruption.
Kingnoel Peralta free irrigation nga po  sir pero until now Wala po umaabot na tubig samin...useless nmn po ginawa nilang irrigation samin😭
Free irrigation sa lugar lang ni pinol. Sa amin may irrigation walang tubig. Libre kasi kaya walang tubig ang irrigation.
Marilyn Tuscano Bulaay-Herrero kaya pala libre walang agos..ung malalapit lng sa dam ang my tubig na umaagos
MannyPiñol  sir.. Baka puede nyo kami bigyan dto sa Gamu , isabela..  May irrigation system dto sa amin pero sobrang layo namin sa magat dam..  Dalawang pumping station pa po bago dumaan sa amin kaya hirap kami makapag produce maraming palay
Bka palpak na irrigation.....
I don't understand why reject the proposal you want that thegovernment will work in your farms and grow foods for your consumption...its unfair. The idea is counterparting.
Tama po former agriculture worker aquh sa Israel together with Peru,Thailand and African worker napaka potential at mayaman ang bansa ntin sa agricultura ang problima ung sistema natin dto gagastos ka ng malaki from land prep to harvest pro pag benta muna ng mga produkto muh halos hingin nlang sa merkado ang presyo HND balansi kaya unti unting namamatay kabuhayan ng mga farmers dto sa pinas lalo na ung mga maliliit lang na farmer.HND kagaya sa ibang bansa lalo na Israel ang yayaman ng mga farmers dahil maliliit na farmers tinutulungan ng government na mkapag export ng mga produkto NLA.,
Bakit HND nyo e adap sir Manny piñol ung drip irrigation system ng Israel.,
Sir puede ba one at a time muna. Ayusin nyo muna ang problema ng mga farmers. F maayus u maybe mas maluwag na tanggap nila ang project nyo. Un tamang presyo lang nman ang kaligayahan ng mga farmers. D un traders ang nakikinabang.
Aaron Jhon Calilap I don’t have to. My source of info is from my family. And my question is not address to you.
MannyPiñol hehehe sana lang sir baka kung sino sino lang po makinabang dyan lalo na ung mga kamag anak ng nasa DA kung sino man po mag distrubute nyan sir.kami nga sa binhi at pataba wala pa natitikman na subsidy ng DA.SANA LANG PO SIR PAKI BRODCAST nyo naman sa TV ang mga maaari namin makuha na subsidy bawat isang ektarya.hindi po kasi malinaw.kagaya ko nabagyo palay ko nakaraang tag ulan nilagay sa state of calamity region 3 kasama ang 1 and 2 bakit wala nakarating sa amin napinsala palay ko pero ano napala ko.saka kung ipa insure ko naman sa crop insurance eh wala din dati na po ako dun wala ako napala.sana isa din sa imbestigahan yan PCIC.saka sir para po maging epective yan pag bili ng palay ng NFA sana magtalaga sa bawat barangay ng bibili na NFA sa mga barangay na maluluwang ang bukirin at sana din po eh ilagay oh sabihin talaga ang mga dapat gawin kapag nag bebenta sa NFA.maraming reklamo sir sa NFA.sana sir kung may oras po kau eh baka po pwde paki bisita ang PAGE ng mga gaya naming magsasaka.like USAPANG PALAYamanin.para makita nyo mga hinaing ng bawat farmer.gaya ko sir buwisan bukid ko inuutang ko sa GM BANK puhunan ko.15 kaban buwis ko sa may ari ng lupa ano pa po mapapala ko kung napaka baba ng palay.sana naman pakingan po ninyo kami mga magsasaka na nagpapakain sa bansa.ang laki ng hirap namin sa pag bubungkal ng lupa tapos hirap padin sa pag bebenta ng palay.lalo na sir nitong dadating na tag ulan ano nalang mangyayari sa presyo ng palay namin gaya ko nag iisip na din ng iba na pagkakakitaan at balak kuna isurender sa may ari ng lupa ang bukid ko.hahayaan mo ba sir dumating ang panahon na umaasa nalang tau sa ibang bansa ng bigas na kakainin ng bawat pilipino.kung aasa nalang at mamamatay ang agrikultura ng palay at mababa na ang produksiyon ng palay sa bansa at dina sapat at ung ibang magsasaka eh ibenta na bukid oh iba ang itanim.sa mga sinasaka nila.hahayaan mo ba sir na ganun mangyari...wala tau sariling bigas.at kung aasa nalang tau sa ibang bansa hindi ba sir parang GASOLINA AT KRUDO lang po iyan umaasa sa ibang bansa.baka bandang huli sir wala na kontrol ang gobyerno sa presyo ng bigas galing ng ibang bansa kasi magugutom ang mga pilipino kaya kakagatin ang presyo ng mahal at imported na bigas kapag nawala na ang magsasaka na gaya ko......sir may paki usap ako sir sau sana imbestigaan nyo mga rice mill taga nueva ecija ako.may mga nakakarating sa akin na may mga rice mill na bumibili ng NFA na bigas.at ni reremilled lang at isinasako at hinahaluan lng ng magandang bigas para dumami.sana sir silent imbestigation lang at ayaw ko madamay basta tip ko lang po sa inyo.pangkaraniwang magsasaka lang ako ayaw ko ng gulo pero sana imbestigahan nyo po iyan sinabi ko at pag isipan mabuti lahat ng ibiahagi ko po sa inyo.salamat sir...
Ang tulong ng gobyerno nanjan,,ang problema yung nasa baba corrupt na din kaya ayun,walang ngyayari
Miat Dualan correct hindi balance talaga isipin n lng nila napakamura ng nyog palay at mais pero taon taon ngtatax tau ng buwis ano pa nag kikitain kung napakamura ang bili ng mga traders
Rogelio M. Cabiladas It's only proposal, no implementation whatsoever. Don't condone anything that is non existing, just mere hearsay.
MannyPiñol you have no idea what farmers really need. We borrow money from lenders/traders which forces us to sell our products to them at a very cheap price during harvest season or else they won't lend us again next planting season. This is the reason whyfarmers remain poor.
Miat Dualan correct. Mataas ang overhead thats why breakeven lang or kumita kaunti lang for prep to harvest stage of 4 months.
Wag ipag katiwala ang tulong ng goberno sa isang lugar na nangngailangan kasi nauwe sa corruption...dapat kau mismo ang magbigay o bantayan ang pinapagawang irrigation para mapakinabangan ng maliliit na farmer...
Marilyn Tuscano Bulaay-Herrero Free irrigation kung meron irigasyon. Eh sa dami ng lugar na hanggang ngayon wala pa rin access sa irigasyon, eh saan aasa sa ulan o sa gobyerno na dapat tumulong?.
Sir manny mula sa kapitan hangang sa mayor po corrupt,pano niyo po mas sosolutionan yun...tulad nalang po sa pag request sa D.A ng mga agri machinery sa samahan bago po maka kuha kailangan mag lagay para ma aaprove yung agri machinery nila na request..pero yung pangulo din  ng smahan corrupt din..kaya nga po dapat may bitay nadin pg corrupt ang mga isang public officials natin..
Ryan Villasor Painaga Makarunggala  sir, un maintenance fee po kapag ibinayad sa IA ay para may maitustos sa kaayusan ng system.. kung wala po kc magbabayad n gumagamit ng system..darating ang tym n kapag kailangan ng pangmaintenance... may magagamit po n pundo para sa maintenance at magpatuloy ang service ng irrigation..
Maraming lugar tlaga that needs irrigation! Sa dami ntin, palagay ko di sapat ang DA budget this year for the SPIS project nationwide! Dapat mag ingay tayo palagi pra taasan p tlaga budget ng DA!
bakit dito sa middles nagbabayad din naman sila sa tubig mas mahal pa nga ang tubig pero non stop naman sila mag farm kahit el niño naman dito sadyang mariklamo lang kas talaga mga pinoy gusto lahat libre
MannyPiñol magreact ka naman sa sinasabi sayo ng mga magsasaka, mura bili ng palay, tapos mahal ang bigas. Andami mo ring satsat eh.  Andami mong plano wala ka pang nagagawa
Sir Manny sa ibang bansa meron sariling irrigation system ang bawat farm. Merong water pump ang well nila kaya walang silang issue kung merong el nino.  At kung merong rain forecast hindi na sila nag e irrigate. Pra tipid sa tubig. Ang nakikita ko lang na kulang sa atin ay pera pang gawa ng sariling pump. Medyo mahal. At tsaka walang forecast specifically each areas. Walang idea mga farmers talaga sa weather forecasting.
Miat Dualan bulokon lagi ka noh? paniid sa palibot before mg comments
Saggy Bonifacio sure di ikaw na ang maalam!
Saggy Bonifacio oh Kay maalam di ikaw solusyon problems sa farmers sa presyohanay sa produkto! Mao lague problema basta gipanganak datu!
MannyPiñol sir mayroon din malawak na sakahan sa Brgy Dugong at Quimloong bayan ng Bucay sa ABRA.ONCE lng po ang Cropping namin doon dahil umaasa lng kami sa ulan.sana magkaroon din kami ng SOLAR IRRIGATION DOON.sana mapansin mo sir ito.salamat.
Kahit na free lahat kung di naman maasahan at sigurado ang market ng produkto ng farmers...wala ring saysay. Ang mga programa ng DA puros 'dole outs' na alam at subok ng palpak sa bandang huli. Parang kahalintulad ng isang paso nilagyan ng tanim at inilagay sa gitna ng desyerto...at iniwan na lang basta...?
Zulivir Leugim Asogaraz maam kakayod ka mang kabayo sa pgpursige kung titignan natin ang presyo ngayon ng farm products ano magagawa mo laban sa nagreregulate ng kurakot na nakaupo sa puwesto? Yung palay ba ba may kakayahan kang makakabawi ka kpag mhal ang ferts and chems at mura ang palay mo? Sa copra di ka mn mag aabuno pro gagastos ka sa mgtatrabao pra mabenta mo, pede ba babaan mo din sahod sa tao dhil bba nman ang presyo?  Khit pa mag intercrop ka kung mataas ang inputs at mababa ang presyo wala kang laban sa nakaupo sa gobyerno na kinawawa ang mga mangunguma. #kurakot ang nakaupo kya nahirapan ang presidente natin. Dami nagawa ng presidente pro ang supply ng DA kung di ibebenta sa farmers, sa farm na nila mismo ginamit haha.
Madalas itong nakampi sa mga nakaupo ay hindi farmers, nakikimema nlang din against pa sa farmers haha.
MannyPiñol first things first. Di po problema ang weather dhil di nman tayo katulad sa desert land n walang tubig sa ilalim ng lupa. Ulan lang ang nawala sa elniño. Kung pgbibigyan nga lang ba ng tamang presyo ang marketing, di yung pag nabili ng farm materials mga businessmen nasusunod sa presyo at kpag ang farmers naman mgbebenta mga businessmen pa din nasusunod? Eh mabuti kung fair ang presyuhan tpos if the farmers cries for justice mag iimport nlang instead of palawakin pa lalo ang farming industry... lol!
Finally, someone gets it! Thank you, @Miat Dualan!🙇‍♀️🙇‍♀️🙇‍♀️  This is what is frustrating to me. What people forget is that at the end of the day, being a farmer or a fisherman is a job. It is a livelihood and a business. As such, treat it as it is. The farmers and fishermen do not have the capital to invest in equipment to expand their business.   I admire the DA's efforts but let's not forget that the secretary is an academic. He isn't a business person. His ideas, though idealistic, lack the foresight and the practicality for real world application. Some of his ideas need to be reviewed (I suggest peer-to-peer review with stakeholders, etc). Checks and balances please. Some of these ideas do not deserve to be implemented unless such ideas have value in the real world. Otherwise, the department will be wasting taxpayers money. (Example: coconut bricks. What happened to that project?)   Here is my question: What will happen after the secretary leaves his post?? Who will continue his programs? Are we back to the old ways again?
Erin Lee my parents are farmers and have agri supply business. It breaks my heart every time a farmer will come to my mom and check if they have some incentives/profit after 3-4 mos of waiting and hard work...🙁
MannyPiñol kain ka muna ng bukbok na bigas. Para magising ka naman. Puro ka papuge. Samantalang 13 kada kilo presyo ng palay animal. Ipahila ko kaya ang leeg mo sa kalabaw namin sakaling matauhan ka nimal ka.
sir MannyPiñol..I think Philippines have a 2meter high rainfall annually that is distributed in 4 to 22 rain per monthly events, while Israel had to have piping system due to low rainfall...I think the Philippines had to harnessed of water storage system both above ground and underground. In fact..I observed the technology of the Ifugao's on the 2000 year old Rice terraces,,which ASCE called it terrace water storage. They were able to store water in those 20T plus hectare of terraces more than what Metro Manila needs for 100 days....Manilan's must learn from the Ifugao, on how to do same thing at the 26T hectares of land at the upstream catchment of La Mesa Dam and Angat Dam...2000 years ago, no expert, no lending firm, no external  consultants, no institutionalize engineering university, no heavy equipment, no power tools...but they were able to make the most sustainable and extensive land and water conservation development in the world...
Sir MannyPiñol, kasi dun po sa labas ..... ang tubig n technology is available sa lahat .... wala na yung bureaucratic hoopla of having associations organizations coops ..... bago makarating ang help ....  eh paano yung nasa mountainous area but  are struggling with water .....  we kept on trying pero hirap talaga kasi tubig as you know is number 1 requirement to be a successful farmer .... kung walang tubig... wala rin...
Mannypiñol bat po ung irrigation dito sa tarlac dati ang laki ngyon bat biglang lumiit kpag tag ulama malakas ang tubig ng ovee flow nasisira mga pananim...buset..napakalakas ng water pag wet season wala.kming panangga sa tubig wasak
Drought is not our problem, corruption is.
Zeno Ryujin agree plus overpriced agri inputs
Zeno Ryujin Yes, the worst plague that happened in the country. Weather is God given to balance the earth and all that’s needed is find the solution that is always there but blinded by corruption for personal greed.
Hindi problema Ang weather conditions Ang systema Ang problema  pag tayo Ang bibili ng inputs fertilizer fuel water electricity taxes at iba pa Sino Ang magdikta ng presyo? Pero Kung Ang farmer Ang magbenta Sino Ang magdikta ng presyo? Trader, buyer at business man Ang tanong Alam ba nila Ang lahat ng expenses,?
Pinagkaisahan talaga ang farmers. Inputs too high, price produce too low.
Kinuckurakot pag dating sa munisipyu
Alfred G. Gabot. Fred.i have trying to propose this approach since Sec. Pinol was appointed. It is still in the Usec. Office. Kung na pilot lng.nila ito di sana meron na silang ipakita sa mga discompyado . now that they have TRILLIONS they should be able to provide us not a dole out but a social investment we can easily replicate to other areas that they like. Sayang ang panahon. Ka Sonny
Rene Lemar Ramel why, did you encounter this in your transactions with the DA. why do you always assume that everybody in govt is corrupt? That is unfair to those who work hard and give their best to serve the people!
El niño not a problem..... corruption is...
Marami pa ring talangkang pag iisip dito sa mga nagcocomments... The least everyone can do is support d idea of solution if it is feasible...shut up if  you cant contribute to nation building...
Renato Ulanday Ibarra sheeeet what happened!
Yan din po ponagtataka ko, may irrigation canals pero eversince wlang tubig n dumaloy pag summer, kaya no irrigation at all, kaingit po tuloy yung mga taga mayantoc. Sabi nga ng lolo ko para walang competition ang luisita kaya sinadya nilang wag matapos ni marcos.
MannyPiñol Sir Address sa Irrigation sa Northern Samar Bakit 2011 pa wala pa rin nang yayari hangang ngayon dipa rin napakinabangan meron din diesel Pump sa Brgy Old Rizal ginastusan ng 500k di rin napakinabangan dapat to ma bigyan ng tamang investigation anong nangyari sa pondo at nagamit lng mga Farmers dito para ma released ang project na wala naman pakinabang sa mga Farmers.
Tama pano  gaganahan ang mga farmer pag sagana ang ani mura gaya ng kopra ang baba na bakit mag iimport ang government ng palm oil kong ang results nman ay ang mga kababayan nating mag kokopra walang pagmamahal ang government sa mga magsasaka.
YES, el nino is a big b.s. Philippines is surrounded by water, and we are still having short of water? B.S.!!!! I'm sure sir Manny Piñol can figure this out. Thanks in advance.
After edsa 1 agricuture has been totally neglected , unlike during pre-edsa agriculture is not as bad as now, typhoon and drought are the main problems including our politicians who didnt prioritized agriculture .I think the govt should adopt the pre edsa 1 policy of the then administration and prioritized agriculture for food security in the long term program.
Alain R. Alafriz dagdag trabaho. Bugbog na ako.
Sec Manny Piñol pls re evaluate land reporm program... it’s one of the bad situation of our agriculture
June Cris Guay PARANG SI PINOY AYAW SA WINDMILL! PAPANO KUNG WALANG HANGIN! AYAW SA SOLAR! PAPANO KUNG WALANG ARAW!
Jun Cubarol .Lol. lahat ng bagay may ups and downs. Kaya nga tinawag na solar FARM kasi gumagamit ng LUPA. Kung may useless land tayo like desert the go! Punuin natin ng solar, pero kung i sasacrifice natin mga farms and pwedeng mapagtaniman ng lupa, then we will have to do a lot of thinking.  Ang dami kasing dada, hindi naman alam PROS and CONS ng bagay bagay. Sa lahat ng bagay may trade off, and hindi lahat maganda.
Ronnie Gallego Duca hindi feasible ang Solar kung wala kang disyerto.  https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.politico.eu/article/germany-climate-change-green-energy-shift-is-more-fizzle-than-sizzle/amp/
that is the problem being. in tropics. people think water is abundant. people only act when drought strikes.
What the DA Sec did not mention is the massive impounding system of California using series of dams, canals and storage in the world’s biggest aquifer. I hope Sec. Piñol is not against large water impounding. California is not simply pumping ground water. These water were engineered. Without large water impounding, those solar water pumps there are useless... You travel Highway I-5, and you can see  many political billboards farmers vs politicians, a major fight there these days. Their politicians are trying to take away more water allocation of farmers to give to growing household demand. Many farms there are already abandoned along I-5 due to lack of water allocation. Farmers are asking for more large water impounding dams from North of California, not solar water pumps. Those large dams are needed to replenish the southern aquifer to draw out more water throughout the year.
sir manny pinol hindi drought ang problema namin na maliliit na magsasaka ng palay we only till a 1 ha. of ricefld mababa ang neto namin. ito ang expenses namin sa isang ha. na palayan man, machine & animal labor cost est  land prep P10,000 higbreed rice P5,200. ferti/pesti & herbi . ferti  6 bags P6,720. muc - 2 boxses P 1,500. insect/herb -P 2,000. transplanting/pulling of seedlings for 1 ha. hire 22 pers @ P350./hd  P 7,700. harvesting/houling&drying - average yeald /ha 120 cav @50 kls / cav - comb hsrvester / 100 cav @10  or 12 cav @ 50 kl P8,400 houling @ p20.00/cav p2,360.  dying p944 f 4 person total P43,824.  expenses the remainin is the net income for 1ha.
In the Philippines, no matter what the invention is, it's not the water that overflows. It's the pockets of the corrupt.
Water is a problem even in Tagum, but it did not stop them from establishing a reverse osmosis facility. Now there sea water is converted to drinkable water every minute and also used to water their banana and coconut farms.
Fuerzas Xycris, that is good for those banana plantations for they have capital, or afford to infuse additional investment. But can the small farmers afford to infuse additional capital? Yung tanim ng small farmers, karamihan, gulay o palay at kunti lang ang inaasahan na kita. Sa tingin mo susugal ng milyon na equipment na reverse osmosis technology para sa maliit nilang sakahin? Ang problema ay hindi ang maliliit na magsasaka, ang problema mga politicians na walang alam na mabisang kasagutan sa problema, kundi puro pansamantalang kalunasan lang. Ito maliban sa mentalidad ng karamihang politicians na yung mananakaw lang ang iniisip.
lack of watershed due to deforestation that leads to drought, less watershed less water.
Because the CARL discouraged the landowners and they don't own lands anymore at economic levels
Because they can irrigate their farms and control water supply based on crop demand Palay is very inefficient and wastefull in utilizing water Dong Rasco any comment!
Corrupt officials will only approve of new ventures beneficial to their bank accounts. They were used to having big cuts or kickbacks. Time to check them and their greed!
What’s killing us(farmers), is the hi cost of farm development and the maintenance (labor/ taxes).. true we have seen gains in irrigation and stable price of fertilizer but when the day comes to sell our produce, we get the lowest price in the market.. worst we meet middle men/traders who take most of the profit that we the farmers should have Sana.. something around this area should be done.
We have abundance of water, from the mountains down to the shore. It’s just the system that doesn’t work. We care what we put on our dining table, but never thought where it came from. Meaning, we care less if we realy care at all, for our farmers and fishermen😔
Bakit hindi natin magawa. Filipino agriculturists and foresters, etc. nasa hotels nag seminar.  In the US they (professionals and scientists) honed their ideas on the field, they cultivate their lands.  In the Philippines, government entrusted to the lowly Peoples Organizations the projects wthout science-based assistance. ✌️😑
Louie Velo DA has poor performance on agriculture lending programs mainly due to corruption! 5/6 lending program still dominate the agricultural funding sources! Sad to say but it is still happening!
Rene Lemar Ramel you can always spent time looking at the negative side.  The role of the govt is not to dole out but an equalizer. Investment has to come from the private sector.  The govt only invest when private sectors are not doing so.  Cro Capital is a mechanism for the common folk to invest. Critique is good  if it leads to progress. Do you have other solution besides converting people moral imperatives
Louie Velo, it is always the negative side that we have to look into if we want to achieve any improvements in the agricultural sector ! Many agricultural programs have been designed and funded but have not generated the expected results mainly due to corruption and poor governance! Billions of pesos have been allocated to agricultural projects like AFMA, ACEF, and the like but the sector has remained sluggish and stagnant! In comparison  to Vietnam, Malaysia and Thailand, our agricultural sector sad to say has lagged behind. I just came from the Philippines and saw the high rate of unemployment at the rural areas! Combined harvesters have taken over! More OFWs are expected as jobs are more difficult to find! What’s worst, prices of agricultural products were down; palay from high of 21 pesos to 14 pesos onions from farm prices of 25 to 8 pesos,etc  compared to increasing cost of inputs! Such situation will certainly contribute to more difficult life and increased poverty if no mitigating measures are introduced! Agricultural infrastructure supports and a new road maps for this sector be prepared  exploiting our agricultural strengths and resources that have never been  fully utilized to our competitive advantage! So much resources have been allocated to this sector but only minimal impacts generated due to poor governance and corruption!
Discipline is the problem..
As a young citizen of our nation I think the reason why our country suffering for poor agriculture technology is all because of CORRUPTION!!!!!
I lived in Cyprus, a small island which was dependent on the amount of rainfall per year to fill it's few dams. Last 2015 when we had our vacation to my home town Iligan city, I toured my family to 4 waterfalls nearby including the majestic Maria Cristina falls which was the source of hydroelectric energy for the island of mindanao. And my Greek Cypriot husband watch in awe and amazement how tons of water thrown into the sea every hour... And he keeps that thought in his mind how come our government haven't done much to ensure we have abundant supply of water whole year round for household, farms etc when there is plenty of water source unlike where he came from. He goes home puzzled as to the kind of governance we had that even the basic need for portable water supply is still an issue.
Sec Manny the true to life story of the movie named “The boy who harnessed the wind” that can be watch on netflix is worst than our situation but they made it. It was in Malawi
DA still didn’t get to the root cause of the problem. Kahit ubusin mo ng pananim ang mga kabundukan, mahal parin ang presyo sa merkado sa ibang commodities. Bakit? Wala sa farmers ang problema. Nasa upstream at downstream line ang problema. Giving the farmers the needed assistance in farming doesn’t mean addressing the root cause. It’s just the tip of the iceberg.
lahat pp hndi drought farmers dont have assistance ang daming pwede i develop so sad phils policy parang butas ng karayum pahirapan
The secretary is blaming others for his failure to respond appropriately to our agricultural problems! What a shame! Whether it is solar, gas powered, hydro  power or wind power; it is still the same problem!  Poor governance for the agriculture sector due mainly to corruption! Focus on this problem  at the department of agriculture and the poverty will be considerably reduced ! Mr Secretary, no more paligoyligoy ; magtrabaho ka naman Hindi Lang Daldal ng daldal! Ay susmaryosep! Maawa ka naman sa mga magsasaka!
Sir Manny good idea... Here in Agusan del Norte, lalo na sa Nasipit, sira farm to market roads. Farm na lang natira wala ng roads. Another challenge here Sir Money is how to bring the water up to the mountains. Sana for Agusan del Norte na nasa ibabaw ng bundok at hirap sa farm water sana matulungan kami. Our coconut trees are dying and even livestock. I hope ma harness ang mighty AGUSAN RIVER to make things possible for Agricultural. Nasa almost 2000 ft. Above sea level ang mga mountainous farms namin. Bringing water UP for farming is the problem. Thank you po. Sana mabigyan kami ng pansin...
Daming reklamo--learn to carry your own weight kasi to make things happen.
The blood of former corrupt agri officials - the solution to our agri problem #MagbuboNgDugo 😈
They because their government has a full concern to their farmers. Most filipino farmers turn their farms to commercial est.  Because they can't sustain their financial needs.
Its a nice idea sir. Ang isang problema ay ung cost of farm inputs lhat tumaas tpos ung price ng commodities halis HINGIIN n lng ng buyer. It.needs IMMIDIATE ACTION FROM THE GOVT. Like the price of onion today. MARAMING ANI PERO LUGI. Sana sir MAACTIONAN ASAP thnxs
if you have drought, typhoon etc that affects food production. some stocks goes up and prices are also up so hoarders makes money. even though we are already in the modern world inventing futuristic gadgets but nothing is more high tech inventing invisible and imaginary economic problem. its a multi million business.
But they have drip irrigation ..in which  most of filipino farmers cannot afford especially small scale farmers😔
But irrigated. Here in davao del sur. No rain, no water, no irrigation. Our plants turning yellow to brown. Ang tao at kambing magkasing amoy na. We dont need those post. We need action for water supply.
Bong Pinol try to find out water supply. Brgy tibuloy. Toril district, Davao city. Water is a burden to us farmers and resident there.
Its a Government Call. Sad to say but it is very true. Many government farm equipment s that are stagnant in the motorpool
The reality definitely defined the Philippines is an Agriculture Country however agricultural products is higher compare in non agricultural country, what a sad reality we are facing now!
Yes sir timely  adequate irrigation water from wherever is necessary for crops animals and humanity. Farm inputs are useless without irrigation water
Ang agri set up sa Pinas pagka way klaro...ngitngit pas alkitran...in order for a simple farmer to realize dreams...you have to travel to hell to make things and maybe right or nothing...
With all due respect po, d po ba dinidiscourage na ang deep well ngayon kc it causes liquefaction, would it be more practical and safe to take advantage of our being an archipelago surrounded by endless supply of sea water thru desalination?.....nagtatanong lang po....
tell that to corrupt politician in their face.
Please act or do something  in the buying price of rice. we are now suffering because of a very low buying price from traders and yet the cost to yield a farm is high...   Please look into it...  Thanks
Drought is not the problem, YOU are the problem. You don't know what to do!
Corruption in Philippines is like leprosy no cure . For example this free coconut seedlings people who worked in DA get more or get most of it especially those who own farms but the ordinary farmer get nothing by the time run to DA all are gone ...  Government in this countries do there job  ..
Drought is not our problem, corruption is the main crisis sa Pilipinas
Mamigay seeds ng palay giblower lng! Mga seedgrowers kasabwat taga DA!
Fully agree, it is the mind settings and attitude.
TELL THAT TO YOUR PRESIDENT. EDUCATE HIM.
Belat mo Jarius. Go solar irrigation
because they dont have leaders like pidut,piñol et al.,who are #"ALL BLOB,NO MOVE!....ALL AIR,ALL FLARE; BUT DONT LIFT A FINGER!  #"ONLY BOY FINGER DOES LIFT A FINGER!."
MR. PINOL, MY SMALL BRAIN KEEPS ON INSISTING THAT WATER CATCHMENT INFRAS IS THE LONG TERM ANSWER TO OUR SUMMER AND EL NINO IRRIGATION PROBLEM... POLITICAL WILL IS NEEDED, CORRUPTION MUST STOP..♨♨♨♨
in every place probs occur in different way dapat may assign taga place pano masolusyonan ang mga ptob kawawa ang mga farmer...
Corret corruption 😠😠😠
THANK YOU FOR NOT SURRENDERING TO THE MORONS SEC PINOL.. NOTHING IS FREE YOU IDIOTS..
THANK YOU FOR NOT SURRENDERING TO THE MORONS SEC PINOL.. NOTHING IS FREE YOU IDIOTS..
THANK YOU FOR NOT SURRENDERING TO THE MORONS SEC PINOL.. NOTHING IS FREE YOU IDIOTS..
THANK YOU FOR NOT SURRENDERING TO THE MORONS SEC PINOL.. NOTHING IS FREE YOU IDIOTS..
THANK YOU FOR NOT SURRENDERING TO THE MORONS SEC PINOL.. NOTHING IS FREE YOU IDIOTS..
THANK YOU FOR NOT SURRENDERING TO THE MORONS SEC PINOL.. NOTHING IS FREE YOU IDIOTS..
THANK YOU FOR NOT SURRENDERING TO THE MORONS SEC PINOL.. NOTHING IS FREE YOU IDIOTS..
THANK YOU FOR NOT SURRENDERING TO THE MORONS SEC PINOL.. NOTHING IS FREE YOU IDIOTS..
Rene Pamintuan you said it right Rene...Im almost exasperated on the ground...the only thing that keep me going on is the contagious Fire from the Secretary...had already shared My exaspiration to the Secretary & SAS Bong a week ago...
Alberto Baylon Cynics like you have no place on this post.
John Paul Bulaclac Cruz Ito ang mga comment na makaka tulong. Hindi na batikos lang ng batikos, wala namang mai suggest na option.
Thailand is number one exporter of coconut and other agricultural products here in europe. Bakit kaya tayo wala ka man lang makita imported canned products..
Luz Almario kasi nag import din tayo. Dyan magaling DA sa import.
Am dying to have one of these but how can afford bagsak copra . Pity
Razel Lim issue here is mechanization at affordable equipments not copra.. Wrong topic naman.. Next #kansernglipunan to smash please..
I dont know if they can compete against the cheaper chinese.
Renan Limbang Renan Limbang mahal at bihira ng pyesas ng mga binanggit mo.. Mas madami pa nga at mas mura yung piyesa ng kanilang subsidiary na company sa russia na #kamaznewholland.. 😑🤨
No corruption 🤔 hopefully, makikita nmn yan s paparating na bwan...
eh lolo eto lang ang promodiser na nakapapasok niya ang produkto ng pinas like mangoes and other agricultural products .. a promodiser na may nagawang mabenta sa mga mahirap kumbensihin na customer unlike sa inyo na anti-pinol puro reklamo , di nga kayo kayang gumawa ng solyusyon at kung kayo puntahan kayo pa ang galit at ayaw tulungan pag may nagawa si Sec Pinol na maganda pupunahin nyo pa #crabblers talaga kayo.. good luck in putting a good man down..
Raymond Magbanua if your not contented of the DA Secretarys work then ask yourselves if tama rin ginagawa nyo sa lahat ng pagsasaka at sistema nyo.. Dont blame him.. Look at yourselves first..
Comrade Jurisprudence ulo mo!
Al-musal adobo, dapat talaga walang restrictions na nakalagay sa constitution para at equal footing tayo with other countries esp. among our asean neighbors.  Sa ngayon dehado tayo sa perception ng mga fdi lalo pag ikinumpara tayo sa mga indonesia, vietnam, etc eh pareho namang may mataas na corruption sa mga yan.  Ipaubaya na lang dapat ang restriction sa legislation, na gaya din ng ginagawa ng ibang bansa.   Magkaiba yan ha, restrictions na nasa constitution vs restrictions via legislation.  Yung una nakataga sa bato, di nababago; yung huli mas flexible depende sa pangangailangan.
Jay Tana chismis radaw to pre 😤😤😤😤😤
Hahaha.. biktima na naman tayo ng papogi points..
Norberto Villagracia Saulon Jr. Dami kc hangin ang laman sa ulo nyan DA sec. sabi ni PRRD eh. Totoo nga walang bayag
latest copra price : 12 per kilo davao del sur!!! do something sir dili kay daghan ra kag istorya.. shit
Jay Tana  sna alamin nyo ang situation sa bansa natin kaya di tayo umuunlad dahil kitid ng utak nyo humahanap nga ng paraan ang da sec para tumaas ang product ng coconut.. Di lang mantika ng niyog ang ginagawa ngayon dami ng ptodukto ang naging mantika kaya mura ang copra gets nyo mga dungol
Jay Tana wag kang manilaw jan puro pangako lng yan wala namang kita ngaun priz ng coconut halos hingiin nlng ng mga buyer paano eto ma solve kung hangang porma lng tayo.....
brandy di ka kasi farmer kaya di mo maramdaman ang hirap ng mga farmers..  ang DA may ginagawa? meron nga at yun ay ang pa unti unting pag kawala ng mailalapag na pagkain sa ibabaw ng mesa... sinamahan pa ng el niño .. patay na talaga...
Kristina Mariano I agree we cannot compete on price and quality..we are playing catch up at least meron na tayong agri secretary that works compared to previous that do not even answer emails...thus kailangan talaga we choose the right leaders..thailand is being run by a few billionaires sad vietnam is over taking us..why they shoot corrupt officials..not vote them to office..we need infrastructure as well as a good salesman abroad..wala tayo non.. even our department of tourism is bloated with inept people..have not seen any tourism add in any filipino stores sa US...sorry for the rant...but if we want to get better...we need quality politicians not trapo.
i'm hopping sec. as small scale coconut farmer we cannot amplify our voice. still we need your colorful effort. my small coconut farm in arakan north cotabato was starting bearing nuts but the problem is the market price is very low.
But still no changes in copra prices. Smh.
Demar Nacz , ganyan katigas ang ulo ng mga Pinoy.....hinahanapan na nga ng ibang market ang coconut para hindi nakasalalay palagi sa Copra ang kita ng mga farmers...tapos ngayon COPRA parin ang iniisip ???!!!....Until such time na hindi kayo magbabago ng Paradigm about sa Coconut....Mahihirapan talaga ang buhay nyo....
Huwag mo ipipilit ang copra mo kasi mura na nga. May suggestions and alternatives na po na ibinigay. Try to look into this para hindi kayo lalo mahihirapan.
Hoping this problem of low price of coconut products will improve. Surigao Sur produce huge of coconut. Farmers devastated of the low price.. Some farmers student stop schooling.. Your eagerness of promoting our coconut industry lighten farmers dream..
The American Heart Association has come out and saying coconut oil, water is bad for you in favor of soy or vegetable oil. The coconut industry must rebuke their findings.
John Paul Manalo Sir a lot of experts has contradict that findings and introduced coconuts instead, thats why you can now see a lot of VCO, coconut flour, coconut flakes, coconut jam in the european shelves hindi nga lang galang sa Pinas but mostly from Thailand. Kahit meron market dito at ang Philippine government ay hindi mag invest ng mga processing plants dyan  para e market dito losser pa rin mga coco farmers kasi  kung meron man galing sa Pinas na mga coconut products ay produced yan ng mga Chinese investors naka base sa Pinas. Try to look around marami dyan sila.
Good morning po sir Secretary We are hoping that prices of copra will increase kahit umabot mn lng po ng 18 to 19 pesos....at this time po kasi dito s davao region meron pong 16 pesos...kawawa ang farmers po...Salamat po sa tulong ninyo Secretary..God bless you po
Delay na ito..sge nlang too late than never
Sir. Our weakness is marketing. Agriculture needs strong market linkages, good packing and processing plants, appropriate logistics and good standards. Ours has always been Production-led Agri, while our neighbors Thailand and Vietnam have strong Market-driven agriculture. We have to re-make our bureaucracy to be Market-driven, properly staffed and engaged, with strong salesmanship for worldwide marketing.
Sir, please,I beg you, save our farmers in rice and coconut.
We need to promote Phil mango as a whole. The only reason they are looking for guinaras mango is because they benchmark protocols from that of mainland US. We dont have enough Guimaras mango and besides, prices locally is still preferrable than that of exporting it given the strict process of accreditation it entails.
Dax Gazmin it’s not always the sweetness or the brix level we should focus on  if we want to export and market our carabao mangos to the world. Other factors should be considered such as perishability or shelf life , easiness of handling , competitiveness of its pricing (considering there are other mango varieties out there that would rival our carabao mangos  ) and other issues that might arise once our mangoes are already displayed on the   shelves side by side with other mangos from other countries.
Wag nang umasa hahaha
Bwahahahaha. Im a mango grower. Walang proteksyon ang gobyerno. Its all bullshit. Talk to me and ill tell everything. 🖕
Chemicals are monopolized. Dig deeper and read along the lines!
Chas S Vidanes , "does a banana grower produces mango?.. a stupid question!!
Bong Pinol you gave me a stupid answer at first!!!
Bong Pinol easier said than done!!! Better stop it!!!
mahirap kausap ang australia. masyadong istrikto sa sanitary standards. pati saging natin hindi makapasok.
MannyPiñol That's sad, matagal na namin inaantay Yan sir, noon akala namin go na kasi nagserve pa sila ng Philippines mangoes during the visit of Pres. Aquino in Canberra. Anyway sir walang sinabi ang Manga dito sa Manga natin, the best parin ang Philippines mangoes. Sana mabigyan parin ng chance. Thank you sir sa reply. 👍
Catherine Parayno  korek! Dito nga sa melbourne pangit din ng lasa ng kanilang mangga. Namimis ko na tuloy mangga natin😩😩
Way lasa ng mango sa TH, been there for a year before.
If there is a dearth of supply then it's about time to do corporate or compact farming for Guimaras mangoes in Guimaras and in other similarly replicable areas.
David Alexander 🙄 pick up your brain. Duh
OUR MAIN PROBLEM IS HOW TO SUSPEND THE RIPENING OF THE MANGO......
I wish our sweet mangoes will also reach Canada. I was sad to not found any but only other varieties which I dont even care eating before in our country. Would be proud to let everyone know that we have the sweetest mango.
to tell you the truth, sweet mangoes from Pakistan and India that looks and taste like the Philippine mangoes are being sold here in germany for 1,80€ per piece in asian stores. fruit handlers are complaining of monopoly in the part of philipine handlers as much as they would love to buy from philippines.
I’ve handled mangos for a while in the  US , a decade  at least .  Coming out of the mango growing regions of Mexico from Chiapas Nayarit n siniloa  and exported into the USA and Canada . Also I owned and operated mango orchard, along with my farming friends and fellow agriculturist in homestead Florida .  Here’s what I can share :   1. Mangos are site specific and sweetness are influenced by proper nutrient ( potassium) Mgt and other cultural practices to increase its sweetness.Our carabao or phil mangos grown in Miami are not the sweetest . There are other varieties just as sweet and even sweeter in terms of brix , Alphonso from India and Chaunsa from Pakistan . Our carabao has   it’s highest brix if grown in guimaras or zambales  due to our soil and climatological conditions unique to us . There are other mangos grown in India , Mexico and Pakistan  that to them is the best and the sweetest .  2 . Our carabao mangoes have a thin skin such that it’s exportability when it comes to transportability,  handling and proper merchandising may be more cumbersome compare to other varieties like the Ataulfo of Mexico , non doc mai of Thailand and Chaunsa of Pakistan. The window of its highest peak of ripeness for the carabao is too short ( 3-4 days max) compared to Ataulfos that can last for a week , getting sweeter  as they ripe. Carabao looses its flavor just  barely a day or two after reaching its peak . ( Thou research are now underway to address this issue )   3. In any countries there’s always a limit in what consumers are willing to pay for a piece of mango . Due to long shipping distance from Philippines to Europe and it’s inherent perishability  our carabao mangos may not just be competitive enough . Mexico grows carabao mangos (Guerrero and Chiapas ) and from what I have tasted is sweeter than what we have in pi.
Mangoes are not shipped ripe. green pa, just like when they are harvested. Mangoes that will be exported are grown in Guimaras for Sweet Galila and Zambales for Sweet Elena and not anywhere else. issues you mentioned above is not applicable.
Denden Galit  all mangoes for export  are always shipped at green stage regardless of their point of origin. What I tried to point out here are issues our carabao mangoes would face , once they finally arrived on the shelves of the country importing them .  Issues such as , its inherent quick perishability due to its thin skin , what their final pricing be considering the long distance travelled from pi  and other factors affecting consumers decisions wether to buy our mangos instead of the other varieties.  To me the most compelling issue here would be the final price  of ea. mango  once  it arrives in their final destination in Europe or the Middle East .     I remember in the past decade or so they tried to sell carabao mangos in the us . Price for ea. piece came out to be at $4.  Sold out in the first day (due to excitement ) but no reorder afterwards. At the same time , we’ve heard  comments from our kababayan saying .. why buy a piece of the  carabao mango when you can buy a box of Ataulfo or Kent  mangos for the same price and  are also almost as good  in taste and aroma of the carabao.    Then when  it comes to perishability it is difficult for any produce store  to keep our carabaos longer on the shelves while maintaining it superb flavor and aroma since the peak of ripeness is barely a day or two, after which their flavor have dissipated.
stocking, handling and packaging management lang yan sir. hindi naman siguro aabot ng isang buwan ang lamang ng ibang variety sa carabao mango ng pilipinas when it comes to shelf life perishability. mas marami akong mga foreigner (not only US) na narinig, nabasa, at nakita na may positive review sa carabao mango compara sa ibang varieties all around the world. It is sad at galing pa sa ating mga pilipino ang negative reviews & comments.
Denden Galit   there’s no doubt about our edge  sa taste and overall flavor ng ating carabao and of course those  positive reviews we are getting , with our carabao  mango  would certainly help us push ours  vs other mango varieties in the market.  But these reviews do not translate into actual volume of sales yet  or until such time we start shipping and offering them out to consumers . We don’t have enough data to say that consumers will prefer carabao mangos over the other varieties on the shelves of their favorite supermarkets.    What I am sharing  to you now is the actual experience of importing and selling carabao mangos grown in Mexico  and the volume of sales  generated from it .   So you know what happened that time  ? ... most of the stocks of the carabao mango became soft  and fully ripened in the warehouse while their skin were still green .Thou the superb taste  and aroma are still there  , they never sold and  sadly all the mangos ended up in the dumpster . The importer lost his shirt that day including his pants  and said never again for carabao mango.  So this is one of the reality of  handling and merchandising carabao mangos  post harvest and at point of destination .  It has nothing to do with management techniques like what you have mentioned.  (Also I don’t make negative comments without basis .)   Before Dr  Hernani Golez  our known mango expert died in 2009 , I had the chance to discuss with him  some of these issues I was sharing now to everyone , and at that time he was almost done with his new research on controlled atmosphere (CA) storage for our green carabao mangoes. ( With CA  technology  apples in the us can be stored for a year ). This  post harvest technology will prolonged shelf life of our mangoes  when transported over long distances using ocean vessels rather than the prohibitive  cost of air freight . From what he had  disclosed that time he was almost done with  his research , saying that our mangos may now be stored for a longer period of time (10 -14 days ) maintaining their green stage  and arriving at their destination ready to ripen.  So if this is the case now , we still need to find out the final landed cost for a piece of mango to its country of destination using this new technology.
Denden Galit  in us they tried selling it for 4 US dollar a piece. This was more than a decade ago. Nothing was heard about it since then .  At $ 20 a piece you can buy two boxes of  Ataulfo ( Manila mango)Kent , Keith and Haden mango originating from Mexico  and South America here in the us.  They are also sweet , aromatic , fiberless and would taste  the best for people who are used to these varieties. Kaiser and Alphonso from India are even more desirable for the Middle East market.   So  let’s see  what happens then with our $20 a piece mango .  Would surely love to hear your  feedback on the volume of sales. ( Dapat May lasang ‘caviar‘ yan  mango natin para mabili ng mga europians) just kidding..
Denden Galit  4 $ a piece Lang Pero nagmumura na mga kababayan natin sa us at Canada. Bakit daw sobra mahal parang ginto presyo .. almost pareho lang daw lasa sa nun doc mai, Ataulfo at Kent. Yung Francine Haiti mango same  Lang lasa  sa carabao Kaya Lang mafiber kaya sinusupsop nila ang pag kain nito.
in Veracruz Mexico n other places south , they grow carabao mangos and couldn’t export for now to us since this  variety wouldn’t stand hot water treatment. Distance of travel if ever from Mexico to Europe is almost cut in half compared when coming from pi. So landed cost of mangos from Mexico would be a lot cheaper and hence more affordable for European consumers.
I have the experience of sending mango to Russia. The problem is the expensive cost of air delivery.
This is good news but pls don't compromise the local supply n price. Baka ang local mga low grade na lang matira.
That's about $20?? Won't sell even in the US!
Export BALIMBINGS First!!!
REALITY..PLS STOP MIDDLE MEN!!!BAGO MANIWALA ANG MGA PLANTERS!!!DO A PROGRAM IN FAVOR OF MAMGO GROWERS!!!
There are many challenges in the mango production on top of it is that it is very capital intensive, plus the fact that materials needed to ensure good production have sky rocketed of late. Come harvest time, selling prices just drop to level beyond BE.. Companies buying dried mango purchased it at a very unreasonable amount at times....perhaps Govt will intervene.
Sir MannyPiñol, good day po! I believe you really have the earnest desire to help our agriculture sector including our mango industry. However, I am frustrated with DA's lack of support to my newly registered Philippine mango, the "Mangoming" variety.   I have posted about it in your Page when you were newly appointed as DA Secretary in May 2016  but sadly it never merited your attention as I got no response from you.  So here's my comment in response to your video above...  What about "Mangoming" mango variety? Will DA continue to ignore it forever just because it might pose a threat to the existing mango industry?  If only our previous DA officials did not ignore my Mangoming for nine years since i obtained the Guiness World Record certificate as the "Heaviest mango in the world" in 2009, the Philippines would have been known not only as having the biggest but also the sweetest mango in the world because the scientist from the University of UP-Los Baños, Laguna after a 3 year study and research were able to prove of my Mangoming's superior quality in 2017 hence the subsequent validation by the NSIC-TWG and registration approval by the council in November 21, 2018. Four months have passed and no news about it was disseminated from national down to regional and local DA, BPI and LGU Agriculture offices for propagation and distribution to all Filipinos as I have been offering its scions for free.
Hanna Petigulao ... Meron na pong sagot si Sec. Manny. Hindi pala responsibility ng DA.
Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan kasi Hindi  kayo close.kaya ganyan.
yes sir  my boss who are hkonger and singaporean and expat working in abudhabi express dismay when very expensive mangoes dont meet their satisfaction  kaya po gusto nila pasalubong lagi manggamg hinog. at hnd pa po guimaras mango ung dala ko un lang galing sa palengke namen. i think guimaras and zambales are the best dw po.kaya sn mai market tlg ng husto keep it up sir
My endeavor.
Ulol!
Ron Manalo so sad.
Logistics phytosanitary and packaging needed first
Nonone can bet our mango. Mango here in overseas is like singkamas ...no taste.
bukbok....
Sir without Packing Plants, fully export accredited, HVT or HWT capabilities, our best mangoes can not be exported. At best our better mangoes will end up in our market places.
You have identified the main issues, there are no HVT facilities or mango packing houses on Guimaras, we talk a lot about the Philippine mango but Thailand acts, they are far ahead of the Philippines in every respect apart from taste.With DA support private investment would follow together with job creation and increasing economic development on Guimaras. The impact would be enormous but to date there is minimal support compared to what Thai farms receive and I am not referring to monetary support rather technology and shared facilities.The research station on Guimaras is not properly funded and they have only very basic facilities unworthy of a nation that produces the best mango in the world.There have been no deep wells drilled on Guimaras and water is a major obstacle, the future could be so bright for the farmers yet they can only dream of access to international markets despite frequent press announcements.Japan and Korea now want only organic fresh mango and other countries will follow.At Kokomojo Mango Farm we will be fully organic his year and we want to work in collaboration with other on Guimaras to build a credible export capability.
Yes, i have been saying that repeatedly. We are so PRODUCTION-LED that we insist on producing more but we are not MARKET-DRIVEN that we cant connect the dots. The foreign markets have standards to meet in packing, appearance, documentation, certifications, etc.  I dont understand we have been repeatedly stating that we need THE VHT and WHT machines to allow phytosanitary inspection certificates for these mangoes, that they are pest and fly-free, but despite repeated and multiple Mango Congress tackling this issue, wala pa rin.  WE must now turn into MARKET -DRIVEN for our farmers, so we can do market linkage.  We can spend and spend budgets for seminars, trainings, summits etc. repeatedly but if we do not do what the market standards and needs, it will be just a waste of our farmers' time and moneys. We can increase production volumes, but if we cant sell them in foreign markets, papano?
The needs for logistics, packing materials, packing and processing plants, certifications, and export works, is critical. We can talk about the markets out there, but if we dont have Common Toll Packing and Processing Facilities that farmers can use, with full export accreditation, it is useless. Porma lang, ingay lang.
Rene Pamintuan punta po kayo sa guimaras ang mangga dun halos pang export ang dinadala sa public market is yung bagsak sa standard
1k? What kind of fckery is this lmao
Some mangoes in the market taste like medicine. 🙂 I miss our mangoes.
Am a mango grower. Its all bulkshit. No protection from the government. Mango trees are cutted aroung my neighbor and charcoaled it. Fuck DA.
Lo and behold, watch for the downfall of rice production in more conversion of rice lands to subdivision. Rice enhancement fund will only benefit the traders of agricultural machineries to be purchased by the government. Why inrease production of palay if it will be purchased at lower cost? Based on the prevailing farm gate price of palay which is now at 15 Php to 17 Php per kilo, compared to 20 Php to 25 Php per kilo before rice tarification, the average of 100 cav per h.a. yield, opportunity lost to farmers is around 250 per cavan or approximately P25, 000.00 per h.a. This will even be more as yields per hec now reaches 140 to 160 cav. per hec. How about that? RICE FARMERS ARE IN THE LOSING END OF THE TARIFFICATION LAW!
Hope that this project will reach us here in the ilocos region.We probably spend more than 17k/hectare in Diesel consumption just to water our cops.
Palay buying price=15p/kg,  Rice market price=50p/kg. copra buying price=12p/kg cooking oil market price=80p/kg kawawa mag sasaka,middle man yumayaman.
Bry Macalma sad reality sir but unanswered
grabe naman baba ng kupra...saan yan samin buying pa namin nasa 14 pa...ang pabili namin sa city 15-15.5 pa...malapit pa naman kayo sa davao...malaki ang ganansiya ng mga negosyante jan...
hoy manny pinol  comment ka
Tikalon kasi secretary ng D.A at panabong na manok lang ang alam. Ultimo pag sagot sa pagtaas ng input sa pagsasaka, ini-iwasan ni Peñol, kung bakit tumaas ng 50% sa loob ng dalawang taon pa lamang nya at ni Duterte kumpara sa 12 taon ni arroyo at aquino.
Sana bigyan pansin ito ng mga taga pamahala at grabi ang pag baba ng presyo ng producto mula sa magsasaka..paano pa ung mahihirap umuutang pa para may pang gastos sa kailangan ng sakahan tpos pag ani sa sobrang baba ng kuha ng mga middle man kulang pa.. Kadalasan magsasaka cla ung salat at walang maihain sa hapag kainan dahil sa kulang pa pambayad sa napag utangan ang ani nila.. Plesss admin patulong nman ang mayaman lng ang lalong yumayaman ang mahirap lalong nag durusa.. 😔 😔
Bry Macalma korek the most neglected and abuse sector of our society..  Laging ginagamit... Ngayon naman presyo ng sibuyas bagsak.. Mag sasaka na naman lugi
Alisin na kasi mga middleman switik mga yan!!!
Cge daw be ipreto ng i.o g lubi dili na himuon oh mantika mo gamit cla og krudo kuryente kanang humay long aga na na wlag gi gamitan og mkina makaon b diay na kng naay pasi
Stick to issues. This is a distraction. Only a few have rubber plantations like yourself. Mag resign ka kung hindi mo kaya. Puro nlang ba deregulation ang sagot sa mga problema sa agrikultura?? KAMOTE 👊
Not just in Davao pero ang tanan na coconut farmers.. Perting looya.. Dili na lang ta ganahan mag kopras kay mahal ang bayad sa labor barato kaayo ang presyo..
Nung panahon ng presidential election nagre range ang price ng copra ng 40pesos to 50 pesos amg kilo peto mung nagpalit ma ng pamumuno ang ating bansa mukhang may hokus pukos nangyayari pinabayaan tayong mga magsasaka puro nlang sila pangaka gaganda ang presyo ng produkto nating magsasaka pero sa facebook lng pala wala sa realidad,di kaya bayad utang sa mga nakaupo ngayon sa gobyerno kaya nagbingibimgihan nlang sila sa mga hinaing nating mga magsasaka.
Tom Fiel sa amin 14.50 to 14 pesos per kilo  🙁🙁
Sa NFA nyo ibenta.  By:Piñol
Rodel Pedral sira ulo din lang magbenta sa nfa.. come to think of it.. dry na binibili nla kng may 100 sacks ka na basa pa ang kuha ng trader sa amin nasa 21 per kilo dati kng sa nfa ka 17 per kilo yung 100 sacks mo na basa pa pag binilad mo yan at dry na nasa 60 to 70 sacks nlang yan.. bobo lang magbibenta sa nfa..
Tom Fiel Bayugan City, Agusan del Sur... Trento Agusan del Sur sobrang mura talaga lugi talaga
Rodel Pedral NFA kaso kailangan mo pa ipa dry kasi di sila tumatangagap ng fresh harvest
Wala talaga kawawa kami mga small farmers dito sa lugar namin kulang supporta ng gobyerno...hahay ieewan ko bah
Tom Fiel yan nalang kasi ang alam isagot ni piñol eh. At abangan ang kanyang solar irrigation. Million ang halaga nun at ang produktong dinidiligan nun eh tig 14pesos per kilo lang😂
Rodel Pedral maling mali talaga desisyon nla.. di nla iniisip yung mga magsasaka.. mga importer lang ng bigas ang lalong yayaman..
Ondo Pielago Santos lugi prin.. ok lang sana kng bibigyan tayo ng gobyerno 35k per hectar yun yung tantya ko na malulugi natin per hectar..
Tom Fiel are you a farmer 👩‍🌾 or private employee you visit website ng nfa by provinces how progressive they are bago mag comment search muna or you are troll by dilawan oppositions,,,
Tom Fiel oo nga frin grabi gyud lugi talaga ambot bah nganu nga mao ni ila gi presyu sa kalahatan... Tapos pesticides and fertilizer ang mahal di talaga balansi
Ritzzy Sipin Pascua farm owner tanga.. wag mo kong tawaging troll kasi di mo alam pinagsasabi mo..
Nueva ecija 13-15 😔
Ramos Cel wla na kawawa talaga mga palay farmer ngayon.. pati modernization ng puv at pub kawawa pati rin kami tinamaan sa modernization wla suporta ang gobyerno..
Ritzzy Sipin Pascua progressive sa website in actual nganga
Even NFA walang kwenta bumili, dami chichiburichi. Kung kaya ng mga traders bumili ng palay sa 20 pisos noon bakit 17 lang sila at e dry mo kaysa 20 pisos na wet. Ngayon 20 kuno pero kailangan dry. Kung totoong may malasakit ang NFA dapat di pinapahirapan ang farmers.
North cotabato rubber price..22pesos p/kl acid 60 ml 60pesos + toppers 40% patay tayo dyan...
Sana huwag naman lahat magtanim ng rubber baka mag over supply na naman tapos babagsak din ang presyo. It is better for DA to study which crops are better suited to a province. For ex Highland Alfonso Cavite you can plant black pepper and coffee but these are not suitable to other provinces.
Di nman
Klent Rodni Delima  hindi parin sapat yan para sa mga rubber farmers, hindi man lang maka pantay sa price ng bigas per kilo, and the farm inputs (fertilizers) napaka mahal 😞
Joseph Giovanni V. Lumajen wa gihapon na kay adto malaysia eprocessed...buying company ingon ka iluto nila unya gimagic2 ra recovery basehen imo previous delivery....unya didto diay malaysia gidala ang goma
MannyPiñol tutokan mo ang coconut farmers,,12 kada kilo nalng wag puro salita wala kang nagawa mag resign ka...
Pinoy Gonzales not really. This concept has been embraced by many other countries.
Joerg Wehner  try gtz and ded
Arkicon Estudio these are not engineering office
Arkicon Estudioi know them. But they don’t do such engineering
Mr.Piñol,try to investigate the bigtime copra buyer.wag ka muna mag punta sa ibang issue.
No need to talk Sec Manny, jst stop all palm oil importation asap! If you cant do it, perhaps Prez Digs can! Our coco farmers are dying!
no di ganun kadali yan, kasi may mga produkto tayu na dinadala din sa kanila eh baka rumesbak  at yan ay normal practice ng mga bansa -- kaya nakikipag usap sya ng maayus at legal  para di maapektuhan ang mga produkto na dinadala natin sa kanila
Diplomacy sir Di bastosan its about ethics... One way of showing that we professional and educated than inhumane attitude. Sir Piniol handle it right. God bless you you.
Gerardo Empleo Suello they are our neighbors we need to trade with them.. that is not how world trade works....
Hinde basta basta yan may WTO kasi so hinde puede total ban
You have a brain similar to the wild west, law of the jungle doesn't apply on foreign policy, you idiot.
Wow! But need to increase the coopra buying price now! Pls grabe 2 years na gutom ang coco farmers...have mercy naman..puro lang posting no result  hanggang ngayon 12 pesos parin sa mindanao😂😂
Martha Jocelyn Bueno Villanueva Maam as long as our good neighbors dumped their cheap palm oil to us, forever n magdurusa tau! We need arm twisting methods to solve this!
panawagan sa DOH and DTI. pls have the cooking oil sold in the  markets labelled COCONUT OIL, palm oil etc. not just vegetable oil. i prefer coconut oil.
Para yan sa inyo ok yan..pero di nyo inisip lalo na sa mga taga sa amin taga samar yon lang po ang pinagkukunan ng hanap buhay ng mga magsasaka..at dahil doon sa palm oil nayan gutom ang mga kababayan ko..pati ako dahil may coprahan akong na ipundar wala ng nagcocopra 8months ago na kasi kulang pa pambayad sa paghakot nlang..aanhin mo ang 6 pesos per kilo..every 2 months nawalan ako ng kita 50k dahil sa pagbaba ng presyo ng copras at ang masaklap yung taga copras ko na walang ibang pinagkakakitaan umalis punta maynila makikipagsisikan nanaman doon para maghanap ng trabaho kahit katulong manlang malagyan ang tyan na nagugutom..
Mary Ann Dabalos Rabadon mura tlaga tapon ng palm oil ng indonesia at malaysia sa atin kaya nag suffer coco oil,  isa pa sana mismong DA  magkaroon advertisement how good coco oil versus palm oil,  prangkahan na bakit pa pagtakpan ang kaunting ambag ng palm industry mismo dito sa atin
Mary Ann Dabalos Rabadon I wish I have done it for my sister. Too late she’s gone too soon😭
Saleut Deutsch I was so sad that time, thanks God I am not alone I am sorrounded with prayerful brothers and sisters in Christ and a pushy raw diet passionate German friend who source everything for me, spend her own money to convince me. The pain is everywhere, the  stress the worry the fear, will kill me more than the actual disease itself. There is a living a God indeed. So get drunk with with VCO that's my suggestion.
ban palm oil. it's  bad for the environment and health
Hindi pwedeng mangyari yan. Maapektohan ang negosyo ng kapatid ni piñol na North Cotabato Palm oil Corp
HUWAT??  kaya pala lukewarm yung control nya sa palm oil
Delfin Mahinay kaya malabong I ban nya ang palm oil😊 lugi negosyo ng kapatid nya😊
but the price of coconut is based on the world market pricing & not localized, so banning the importation of palm oil to the PH will not affect the price of coconut/copra.
palm oil smuggling is being done on our high seas this has been going for so long, our coast guard is not doing their job to interdict this smuggling  wala silang huli siyasatin ang kanilang accomplishment on this wala.
Jesse Mendiola : Money talks bro.
Dear Sec Manny, just say no to palm oil imports po coz we are looked so stupid already. Don't worry po with our other products because coconut is over production.  Neigboring countries will respect your decisions because you care on our coconut industry.  This is the best NO as an answer po. God bless you po.
Palm oil imports should be totally stopped, only the capitalists are benefiting. Filipino farmers are the one affected. We should first consume our domestic produce of palm and coco oil before importing. Looks like there is economic sabotage going on.
wag mo kasi i approve yung importation!
Gary Galazo Tama bayaw importation Ang nag papa hirap sa mag sasaka at mahihirap
STOP THE BULLSHIT!!!
Pinoy Gonzales they could try pero i doubt anything will happen...suggestions lang yun most likely wont follow through.. graabi diri bro promise diri sa negros 13 pesos na lang.. usesless talaga
Sec Manny please review your project cost now! Mura n po mga gamit ngaun unlike before! Parang yong price nyo 2016 pa po! If you can rduce the price, mas marami p farmers makinabang di ba?
MannyPiñol  SIR UNG CONCERN KO PO SA GOAT RAISINGS DITO SA BAYAN NG TARLAC. Ung CITY VET. Provincial vet.  D.A  jusko di namin marandaman mga nag aalaga ng mga animals.  Dami ko na comment.
Daisy Loads very expensive pala. tnx for d information
Fake news
Hope OBrien kaya mga sabi nya ang motto daw cguro ni mr jordan is to see is to believe..haha.kaya daw fake news kc hindi nmn nya nakita sa sariling mga mata  bulag kc yan c jordan😂😂😂
Magpatayo kyo Ng government controlled cold storage n solar powered tapos dapat mga farmers priority nyo indi mga trader's!
Daming bombay.
Government must build its own cold storage with grid-tied solar panels in strategic locations. Daming pondo ng gobyernong di nagagamit.
