Copra price granex plant kiwalan iligan 19.70 pesos
Rose Tan Coconut Oil and Palm / Kernel Oil are the same lauric oils. Both are maligned by its competitors Canola Oil, Soya Oil, Corn Oil etc
Rose Tan Coconut Oil and Palm / Kernel Oil are the same lauric oils. Both are maligned by its competitors Canola Oil, Soya Oil, Corn Oil etc
Immediate action should be accorded to DA Sec Pinol’s request
Minola is under CIIF
Coconut oil will be a pure white. while , Palm oil will be a deep orange-red. Both are products of palm trees but I prepare Coconut oil. (also here in US prepare coconut oil in the kitchen + for medical use
mataas
Joseph Belisario Sir PCA is now under DA.
9months of waiting to submit that recco .
Madami ng oil source kaya copra for oil must be diverted to new products.
Hmm!
MannyPiñol instead po na BAN why not levy it para may income
Earl Vincent Aguilar Ohh diba sir 5. 8 nalang presyo
Gloria Ili Segaya  Maam kong gusto nyo po pumonta kayo  dto para malaman nyo po  Farmers po ako
Sir Rodlfo Gabor farmers po ako
MannyPiñol yes sir taga san jose Occidental mdo po ako
Rodlfo Gabor samin po pinastorage nalang din namin.
Ideally, basic commodities and services should be controlled by government, not the private sector. These include water, power, telecommunications, and food.
they should take action now...
Sec. check my personal message. Im from here Bongabon Nueva Ecija.
then let the government build cold storages which would then handed down to the farmer’s coop
Earliest onion planting season starts by the month of October, and import permits and licenses for onion importations were cheered to a stop via fb post made last March 22?  That was too late. It has no effect on the current situation.
onions farm gate price Nueva Viscaya @ 20.00/kilo. Retail in Mindanao @ 80-90.00/kilo hmmm....
Lani Ejandra dto po smin s nueva ecija 10pesos hanggang 12 pesos
Ung kpitbhay po nmin
Ung iba thru shipping nila bnbenta onions
import if we really need to.
indutrialization thru coops..
Sir follow up ko yon ice maker ng Mamburao Tuna Fishers Association, Paluan Tuna Fishers Association, Sta.Cruz Tuna Fishers Association members association ng Occidental Mindoro Federation of Tuna Fishers Association Inc... naforward na po ng MIMAROPA BFAR sa ACPC lahat ng requirements...
Please make bike tires!!!
It must be recognized that this photo was from both boundaries of Brgys Lapulabao and Poblacion of Hagonoy,Davao del Sur from a BUB-FMR... Jurevey Roylo Lotis Estribillo Delfin Sharmayne Corro Cando Joseph Lausa Sarita Ollisda Ancajas Renel Hernane-Lausa Briones Cagasan
Balay mn na ni former kag dodong flor
Jeremias Ramos Jeremias Ramos
The SAAD program is implemented only in the poorest provinces of the country.
Tatsky Enriquez cebu does not qualify because it is not a poor province.
The SAAD program is implemented only in the poorest provinces of the country.
Lou Batiancila eggs validity to consume is just 3 months expiry...kaya dapat ma dispise agad ito bago masira
There used to be a Bureau of Vocational Education under the Dept of Educaton...my late father was part of BVE ...Agriculrural High School and Colleges.  the  frontrunners of current StateAgriculture Colleges and Universities.
There is a study in the Uk,the show is Trust me Im a doctor..Coconut oil boost the level of good cholesterol and lower the level of vad bad cholesterol  compare to olive oil..olive oil do nothing..it doesnt add up bad cholesterol which is good but it doesn't boost good cholesterol level..
yes. the EU is cutting their importation of palm oil.
Jobs Bantayan the best way is to ban the importation of palm oil. Imposing huge tax will only increase their market price on us.
Rose Tan correct coconut oil is a very healthy oil  in our body . Instead that we're using any kind of cooking oil we use our own  very organic coconut oil for cooking.Her in abroad the vegetarian people they are using coconut oil for cooking.
Just provide us with coco oil press machine and we'll be fine.
Jhel Pie mag bibigay lang ng padulas ang coca cola at pepsi para di yan mapa tupad
Ban na ang soft drinks sa schools not sure lang if ginagawa sq schools near you.
Xian Pitargue si mangudadatu at piñol malaki palm oil nila, sila nabubuhay.
Open more export market , it is a billion dollar industry before.
Going beyond our borders to promote and open new markets for ph coconut products will take time and it will have no immediate impact on the current price of copra. A localized business model and a small gvt subsidy will do the trick.
Time to beyond buko juice and copra by developing more high value coconut-based products that can increase farmers' incomes and open more markets for them.
sir dito sa amin the buying price is still at 8-10/kilo...
Lots of using palm oil, canola. Corn oil in exchange of coconut oil may its also a reason.
Farmers sell butong rather than copra until such time worth it na mo produce ug copra. Dili lalim mag copra sir nya 20 ra ang kilo..ang datu mosamot ka datu.
Hassim Diakem tama ka jan sir, the traders doubles thier profit in copra while the poor farmers are struggling to survive...anung ginagawa ng DTI sila ang nag check sa manga traders at cartels...busug na siguru.
Ban pam tree
E lumber ku nalang
Waiting
MannyPiñol this is a good short term solution but how about making incentive to cooperative to build permanent cold storage facility. Do we have budget there? We have to fix a long term solution now because we never know the next admin if he/she will be a farm oriented person.
The government should use the million of funds it gets in providing buying centers that will   buy farmers produce the right amount. Traders cant manipulate prices if govt can buy them.
sec sana controlled nalang po ng DA at DTI  ang pricing from farm to market
Our marketing company for farmers: www.tuko.com.ph
Hi Rene, this is Director Gerundio of DA MIMAR0PA. I'm interested to avail your service for our farmers. If you have time tomorrow, March 25, 2019, we can discuss it at our office, 3rd floor Agricultural Training Institute Building, Elliptical Road, Diliman, Quezon City.
See u po monday 10am sa QC office nyo
Rene Pamintuan Sirs, Hfa Coop  please let's sit on ligistics issues with coop team. Solutions knock on our doors.
Dayang Maki and Hfa Coop you may contact me directly for solutions at rtp.tuko@gmail.com 09189124645 REne Rene Pamintuan
MannyPiñol met na Director Gerundio and staff. WE are preparing the cold storage quotes asap.
Bong S. Sudario Marami na po sa region 4b lalo na sa Sn Jose Occ Mdo kada asso po meron sila na bigay ng DA...
Bong S. Sudario . Kaya na yan ng mga samahan ng magsasaka kung 200 bag capacity lang. Magkaisa lang sila para tulungan.
Gerardo Empleo Suello 500k pesos or so
We want to avail your services, please give us a call at 09177977150.
Help! We need buyers! Come to Batchelor East, Natividad, Pangasinan.
If there is an oversupply of local onions, then there should be no importation allowed.   This should also be the policy for other products and produce that are in abundance at certain periods.
onion in our market is 70 to 90 per kilo po
Janna Cortez in many areas it retails at php30/kg na po
Post harvest facilities for every town of onion producing province
Change has come
Give us one in Samal  po.
Hope the govt will also look in using RAM PUMP. Some areas in the Philippines is already using it.
Looking for the best place for abundant water source underground? There is a scientific method that we are specialized, experienced, and available all over Philippines. If you have any requirements for AQUIFER (underground water pool) location you can avail of our services for georesistivity testing and deepwell drilling. 09301542115- Gerick Padilla
Dapat para masaya ang farmers more water more farm products produce diba abnoynoy
Dear Secretary Manny Piñol,  Maayong adlaw Sir!  P5.00 ang punuan pakuhit sa lubi, pahakot pa, P400 ang libu pabunot, lain pay suhol sa pabuak, landa ug palugit, tag P50.00 per sack ang plete sa habal2x gikan sa bukid dag-on sa kumprador. Unsaon man namu ning kupras nga tag P10.00 naman lang ang kilo😭😭😭? Unsa pa may mahimo sa mga coconut Farmers ani nga barato naman kaayo? Maayo untag malung-ag pa ni Kay ila nalang ning buoson. Kung ilaha pud ibaligya ang punuan sa lubi sa coco-lumber, P150 bayad cutting permit sa Philippine Coconut Authority, pa-notaryo pa sa abugado ug daghan pang balayrunon😭😭😭. Dugay nilang atiman sa ilang mga lubi arun lang mubunga, peru karun nga namunga na, paliton lang pud ang produkto sa presyong magulang lang gamay sa pangayo. Peru nganung ang coco-oil mahal man gihapun kaayo, P70 man gihapun ang kilo? kanunay lang me nag on-on ug lupoy kay mahal kaayong cooking-oil. Dili ta mabuhi sa garbu nga second world largest coconut producer ta kung ang mga mag-uuma gutom😭😭😭. Tabange pud sila nga mabuhi pud sila sa abut sa ilang paningkamot😭😭😭. Ipaabut pud unta ang hustisya sa mga mag-uuma ug pangitaan ug maayong paagi nga mulambo pud ang industriya sa lubi nga maoy backbone sa local economy sa mga upland/rural areas.  Sincerely yours, Coconut Farmers  (Copied and paste from a friend's post...Mamalihug ko ug share iyawat nalang makabasa si Mr. Secretary sa Department of Agriculture)  **Looy tawon akong mga igsoon ug kapamilya sa Pilipinas nga nag uma ug ga kopras, barato kaayo ang palit sa humay ug kopras pero hastang mahala sa bugas ug mantika😢
Looking for the best place for abundant water source underground? There is a scientific method that we are specialized, experienced, and available all over Philippines. If you have any requirements for AQUIFER (underground water pool) location you can avail of our services for georesistivity testing and deepwell drilling. 09301542115- Gerick Padilla
Dear Secretary Manny Piñol,  Maayong adlaw Sir!  P5.00 ang punuan pakuhit sa lubi, pahakot pa, P400 ang libu pabunot, lain pay suhol sa pabuak, landa ug palugit, tag P50.00 per sack ang plete sa habal2x gikan sa bukid dag-on sa kumprador. Unsaon man namu ning kupras nga tag P10.00 naman lang ang kilo😭😭😭? Unsa pa may mahimo sa mga coconut Farmers ani nga barato naman kaayo? Maayo untag malung-ag pa ni Kay ila nalang ning buoson. Kung ilaha pud ibaligya ang punuan sa lubi sa coco-lumber, P150 bayad cutting permit sa Philippine Coconut Authority, pa-notaryo pa sa abugado ug daghan pang balayrunon😭😭😭. Dugay nilang atiman sa ilang mga lubi arun lang mubunga, peru karun nga namunga na, paliton lang pud ang produkto sa presyong magulang lang gamay sa pangayo. Peru nganung ang coco-oil mahal man gihapun kaayo, P70 man gihapun ang kilo? kanunay lang me nag on-on ug lupoy kay mahal kaayong cooking-oil. Dili ta mabuhi sa garbu nga second world largest coconut producer ta kung ang mga mag-uuma gutom😭😭😭. Tabange pud sila nga mabuhi pud sila sa abut sa ilang paningkamot😭😭😭. Ipaabut pud unta ang hustisya sa mga mag-uuma ug pangitaan ug maayong paagi nga mulambo pud ang industriya sa lubi nga maoy backbone sa local economy sa mga upland/rural areas.  Sincerely yours, Coconut Farmers  (Copied and paste from a friend's post...Mamalihug ko ug share iyawat nalang makabasa si Mr. Secretary sa Department of Agriculture)  **Looy tawon akong mga igsoon ug kapamilya sa Pilipinas nga nag uma ug ga kopras, barato kaayo ang palit sa humay ug kopras pero hastang mahala sa bugas ug mantika😢
Sir, please sana sa Bgy. Malagakit, Pigcawayan Cot. we depend on rain water kaya palagi failure ang harvest namin. Thanks
Talhal Bai si pnoy sasagot ng tanong mo hahaha.
May nabasa at napanood din po ako dati sa youtube na pilipino scientist na nagligo sa river kung saan may nuclear power plant, ininum pa nga po niya yung tubig na sinasabi niyang safe ang nuclear.  May nabasa rin po ako na ang nuclear plant ng korea ay base sa nuclear plant ng pilipinas. Wala namang nangyayaring masama sa korea.  Narinig ko din sa isang speech ni atty gadon na isusulong niya ang pag baba ng kuryete gamit ang nuclear power plant. Sana wag siyang maging trapo at mapako ang pangako.  Nuclear is the answer for our electrical needs as late president marcos once said.
Vincent Anthony Palisoc tama kahit ang location ng nuclear power plant ng America nasa git a mismo ng city..
Gilbert Gorospe ....di lang forest pati irrigated rice land na e convert nila.
Maybe, Sec Emmanuel Pinol, we may also include 1) drip agriculture  2) planting rice varieties that do not need much water 3) water treatment plants 4) stronger sanctions for violation of water catchment facilities required of every barangay/ household. Thank you!
Clarita Carlos add na rin po maam ang pagsira o blockage ng mga irrigation canals due to conversion of lands to non-agri uses.
Build more dam and water reservoirs.
Items 1 & 2 could be lumped into a comprehensive watershed management program and create a separate bureau, authority or any entity to manage it in coordination with LGUs.
Once you collect rainwater  be sure meron na agad fishes para maiwasan Ang mosquito borne diseases
Part 1 of the Video is China's regreening of the Loess Plateu.  This is the TOTAL opposite of whats happening today in  Benguet and Kayapa area! Mountain dwellers are continiously denuding the forest - of precious pine trees- to make way of profitable vegetables.  attention: - MannyPiñol - Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR)
NIA national irrigition administration sangay niya ( I.A)irrigators association..Blas Gonzales Painaga
Ryan Villasor Painaga Makarunggala ta mlang ta halo2x ta
deto po s Leyte
Correct sama mo PA Dyan politics.
Tubig sa dagat ginagamit sa middle east thru water evaporator..ihiwalay ang asin at fresh water
Jaee Zell some association humihingi ng bayad sa patubig 1 or 2 cavans per hectare for maintenance ng irrigation canal ....
But NIA is collecting fees MannyPiñol pls look into it.
Alfred G. Gabot  wala pong desertification sa Israel.
Ted Cantos Aquino thing.
Big irrigation systems are not under the DA. Theyre under NIA.
Darwin Zabala Aquino yes that could be done. Contact your nearest DA Office and look for the ACPC Loan Officer.
Darwin Zabala Aquino, If you have any requirements for AQUIFER underground location you can avail of our services for georesistivity testing and deepwell drilling. 09301542115-Hanap tubig
Drip fertigation has been pushed for adoption. NIA should plan outside the established norms of irrigation to support farmers.
Gamefarm C Cutter its been opened.
Chris Randy Taguiling Bakakew go to the nearest DA Office so your area could be validated
Paduka Pahala every two years ang frequency.
The problem in Solar power and other renewable power source is it takes a lot of real state, aside from its unreliability due to nature.  Im not saying its na its bad, pero lets evaluate the ups and downs. Wala tayong massive desert like California and Israel. If we will shift sa renewables, then we will have to sacrifice our environment and some farmlands.
Nathan Lagac There is a scientific way of finding water underneath. If you have any requirements for AQUIFER (underground water pool) location you can avail of our services for georesistivity testing and deepwell drilling. 09301542115- Gerick Padilla
Use that Solar Power for DE-Salination...Areas near Ocean or Seas......
Niño Dan T. Mercado Underground water depends on stored water from rainfall and network of surface water winding to the streams below ground. There is a scientific way of finding water underneath. If you have any requirements for AQUIFER (underground water pool) location you can avail of our services for georesistivity testing and deepwell drilling. 09301542115- Gerick Padilla
Until there is rain, rainforest, and the rocks underneath don't crack
It is called swales.
Everyone is entitled to his or her opinion..
No SPIS for rice farms.  SPIS for other crops is extremely necessary.
Could we request in Digdig , Carranglan , ne
We need reliable source of water for the Implementation of SPIS. Maraming proposed sites just that STW lng ang source which is masyadong maliit to supply the proposed service area to justify the cost of one unit SPIS.
We use PERMACULTURE techniques to keep the water
Solar irrigation is d answer.
Change has come
It's all about irrigation
technology
In
technology
In
In
On Point Sir Soc Piñol... R & D, Consolidation, Processing Led or Guided and Supported by DA. that is what we need
Glenn Francis Unabia basi malipong ang mga ruso kung kakita ug buyog sa tuba!😄😄😄
Coconut grower philippines
Emerson De Jesus not yet, #MTZBelarus nga is finding delaers and distributors at the moment this was posted, pero alam mo ba meron ng CIS na auto brands dito na gling Russia like Gazelle Motors,  sa Pasig na bumibenta ng #gazsadko #sk3308 UAZ Philippines na nasa Valenzuela City, Kamaz na ang delaer ay lifetruck sa malabon and MaZ Trucks and bus sa subic na kababayan na belarusian company ng MTZ Belarus tractors.. Wala pa pero lahat ng na mention ko na companies may available stocks at units with spares na..
Mijur Juris nag pm aq sau sir! Bka mas mura ang 50hp lng need k sir, bka my contact ka sa knila sir,
Emerson De Jesus i just checked the prices online and emailed some local delars sa #belarus, like Sir Pinol said nearest delar ay sa Cambodia, ako sa iyo sir maghintay tayo sa official na announcement ng #MTZBelarus o ng Department of agriculture kung sisimula na papasok sa pinas, like they say naghahanap pa sila ng local distributors at delaers sa ngayon
Eric Jed Abordo Let's plant rubber plants
Bong Pinol January 2017 P40/kilo pa po benta namin.
The private sector Sir will respond to such redirection towards Market-driven agriculture
Dax Gazmin we've found a way of exporting it to russia dax. Ambassador Sorreta was able to work it out.
Sir Manny, the Durian here in Australia came from thailand is $20 per kilo and I live here in Western Australia which is not that far from Davao City where I originally came from. Kaya pikit nlng ang mata makatikim lang ng durian 😅.
Presy Antonio kindly verify from PRMSU Mango Center
Up to now. Prices is at 20/ kl.
Chas S Vidanes prices of pesticides are going down due to generic compitation unlike 10 years ago. I know that...
Labambina Co It’s ok, I know.  I am from Iloilo.  Thanks.
MannyPiñol Sir, pakideclare lang po natin organic practices po sila na maghahabol po sa atin.
Dennis Dinglasan Sir si Rene Pamintuan po may logistics services po.
Emmanuel Sano  kahit itanim ung seedling ng guimaras sa ibang lugar iiba talaga lasa... lupa ang dahilan bakit masarap ung manga ng guimaras
Before when I was a kid guimbal, iloilo now Guimaras province on Cebu, Guadalupe...
Thailand mango at apple mango
Price usually is 120pesos not 1000 pesos here in Europe.
Sir manny
Crlo STamp ... If you want to be included in my list for Batch 7 Free Mangoming Scions distribution in 2020, please pm your recipient's complete name, address and contact number as required by LBC.
Toto Cabalar ... If you want to be included in my list for Batch 7 Free Mangoming Scions distribution in 2020, please pm your recipient's complete name, address and contact number as required by LBC.
Tan Kenneth wow english,minsan try mo mamalenke ara makakita ka ng manggang masarap...kung shitty nakakain mo try mo wag magkunat
Logistics phytosanitary and packaging needed first
russia
Pakistan mango
Photo op.
Thailand's gling yan
Russian mango yn
sa asian store meron yata.
siguro te
Pati america
Florlinda Pardenilla correction. Hindi po sya DFA SEC.  kundi Sec of Agriculture. Teddy Boy Locsin po ang ating DFA Sec sa ngayon.
sandali lang cooking oil is 40-50php to correct
MG Ramos coco oil is 80- 90, palm oil 49-52
Yung sinasabi mong middle man sa palay sila yung financier sa pagsasaka.
Ondo Pielago Santos davao del norte ako.. sa asuncion..
Ritzzy Sipin Pascua ayaw kog tawagag troll kay taga davao ko si duterte giboto nko ayaw pataka dha sulti nga troll ko.. try mo pumunta dto para malaman mo ang sitwasyon..
Please be informed that Effective March 4, 2019 ABERDI FFB prices are as follows; CLASS A- 3,000 PER MT CLASS B- 2,826 PER MT CLASS C - 2,652 PER MT
Kyrie Abigail ikaw jud ako na remember last time u told me gusto ka mag tanum ug rubber
Rising 20/kg
Ae Ra Shi Gallo
22.50/kl cuplump
Ard Mills uli pud ko mayo bai... Maypa ang gabantay kay president pas rubber growers
This could  also be built for residential(house) areas that are prone to typhoons
MannyPiñol sorry sir. Hehehe. Na SIPYAT na oroy ko. Hehehe
" CHANGE" Indeed has come.
Joerg Wehner  they are ngo working in the Philippine from germany
billion sir dili million
they have different fatty acid content
Gef'ford Br'yan Sir lapitan nyo RD ng DA jan s lugar nyo. Dapat meron kayo coop.
Samson Mate, 600,000 po.
Samson cost relates to how much water you need per day plus location and depth of well. But probably between Ph450 to 600k
Change has come👊
you can use white UV plastic film from Malaysia to build warehouse, chicken, pig, fish farms, can reduce heat 11%, long life for 5 years and more, only usd 0.45 per square meter. https://www.facebook.com/386258335084273/posts/819177155125720?sfns=mo
I have 3 kinds of bhrama in Alamada, cotabato sir
