Coconut has many uses, let's use it for our daily consumption....Coconut oil is good for cooking, its so easy to make it!  i hope God will give us Filipinos wisdom on how to manufacture it to run our Automobiles & tricycles.
Way to go.  Let us protect our own industry.
Johnny Bobadilla agree
Agree
agree
Johnny Bobadilla in all fairness to sir manny  its not as if no grip but limited powers. he cannot just set the price like he is the one who will buy plus the fact that coco industry was just returned to Da for just 5to6mos so pls know your facts sir as much as you have right to complain but be fair to sir manny and da because he is not just giving photo ops he need to post photoa of meetings and what he iis doing because many people like you who already see something still consider him doing what will you think if you dont see any post from him.. you can blame the govt for lack of supprt lack of initiative for the past years to not help you shift and open up to new demands of coco by products. but not da on this.  and besides i think he is doing his BEST ON HIS LIMITED POWERS so there vote for congress and sentors who will make bills to protect you and budget to support you.
Jigs Dolores Ignacio tumpak ka po
I agree with u sir, the low price of copra might break even or worst lugi pa. I strongly opposed about other alternatives for the products of coconut tree other than copra and pag uuling.
Johnny Bobadilla korek !
G
High time to protect locally produced Coco oil
i have been informing people to only use either coconut oil or virgin coconut oil if they want a better health.. hindi po sya mahal.. dahil mas mahal po ang magkasakit ang buong pamilya dahil sa toxic cooking oil na palm oil at canola oil we are feeding our family daily.. even sa mga restaurants they are using palm and canola oil dahil nga po mura.. Pero kung malaman nila and ng publiko how toxic the palma and canola oil are, they will surely only use coconut oil.  DOH should also issue an advisory about this fact.
Jesus V. Bajacan kindly share what are the local coconut brands so we can advocate the purchase of Filipino coco products.
Frecy Dela Cruz i agree po.. kaya let's activate our hibernating love towards our farmers.. let's fill our homes with coconut products..  i have been advocating every homes to have following:  VIRGIN COCONUT OIL as this treats a lot of health concerns at para hindi po tumaba..  coconut oil instead of palm oil, canola oil, vegetable oil for cooking, muscovado instead of refined sugar, daily supply of buco juice instead of very unhealthy and expensive milk tea, gatorade, etc.., buco salad as desert instead of unhealthy chocolates, popcorn, etc.... for first aid from poisoning, all homes should have ACTIVATED COCONUT CHARCOAL POWDER.. its not expensive to have all these coconut products.. we can save hundreds of thousands from medical expenses.. this nation will be healthy if we have healthy food products we use at home and in restaurants.. Its our duty to spread the truth to our family and friends and co workers..
Delfin Mahinay tama jud ka naa dri dapit sa amoa naay planta perting bahoa ug tae
Rene Pamintuan palm oil is one of the raw materials in food and beauty industry.  We should be adding value to our raw materials.
yes! its time to prioritize filipino production first from coco to veg to meat industry pinoy products muna dapat ! minimize or stop agri import now
Jeffrey John Lozano tama po kau. We should patronize our own products. But lets try to put ourselves to d shoe of our minimum wage earner consumers, pumupunta sa supermarket, naghanap ng mantika, nakita coconut product from Philippines at 135.00 per liter. On the other side my imported high quality cooking oil at 90.00 per liter... what u think the customer prefers to buy... by d way sir, do u know that buying price of Copra now is at 15.00 per kilo? But coconut consumer pack oil were sold at 130+ per liter?
Salamat sa actions sir Manny  God bless Philippines
its a good move of the government will not import palm oil anymore.
correct good solution sir manny
Paki check po sa carmen north cotabato sir💗salamat po..God bless you 🙏
In these current situation were copra price is low and other agri raw product these indicate that there is a war behind the scene between the goverment now against the cartel who maninupate farmers product..it's a good sign in disguise that means SiR Manny is doing something good for the benifits of farmers ..lets think positive lang..
Keep up the good work for your citizens Sec. Pinol!
Daghang Salamat Sec. God bless you always.
About time!
Good job sir piñol
go go go sec.manny.
Priority our coco farmers...
🙈🙉🙊🐒
Great moves Go a head DA MannyPiñol.
Agree...
Sir manny Willing po akong mag invest at mag create ng coop for farmers to have storage. Need lang help ng government for training and others needs
Romeo Campos it's actually a profitable business.
Dexter Carlit its happening.. But sometimes we need to gamble. We cant sit and wish only
MannyPiñol kindly have your fieldmen see our hanger atorage and  extend help on how we could build more with the help of DA
MannyPiñol yes po 5 --8   nalang  presyo sa murtha ALitaytayan san jose occidental mindoro taga
Salamat sa action sir MannyPinol ,sana po abutan pa mga sibuyas dito sa bayan ng lupao, nueva ecija. ayaw na pong ipabunot ng mga farmers ang mga sibuyas dito kaysa mga mapagsamantalang traders ang kumita ng napakalaki... Marami pong masisirang sibuyas dito sir lalo na at gumagayak ang ulan dito... Sana po makamit namin ang tamang presyo...
MannyPiñol Sec thanks po sa pakikinig nyo sa aming karaingan at mga aksyon. Sobrang daming problema po...
Gloria Ili Segaya maam..dito occi wlang ganyang price..
David James Rubillos very much agree, Sec. Pinol please implement for the good of our farmers
Cora Ranada sa totoo lang. Dpt tlaga government controlled lahat ng basic needs ng tao. Kasi the government is a non profit system. It needs profit but not at the expense of its citizens. Pag private kasi pera tlga una bago pus9
Agreed!! Their using their powers/ connection to manipulate. Then the sad part, :( :(   Every Year lagi silang baon sa utang,  para makapagsimula tapos Walang kita. Umaasa na makakabawi.  LET THE POOR FARMER GET WHAT THEY DESERVE !  Please Have Mercy on the Farmers.
Impose higher taxes/tariff to those importers of onions and garlics. By this manner our (Filipino) farmers will live a prosperous life ang uplift their morale.
DA should open their own cold storage to neutralise the cartel. Help small farmers form a collective or federation to negotiate with foreign buyers.
Agreed!! Their using their powers/ connection to manipulate. Then the sad part,  LET THE POOR FARMER GET WHAT THEY DESERVE :( :(   Every Year lagi silang baon sa utang, tapos Walang kita.  Please Have Mercy on the Farmers.
Delfin Mahinay amen.
Thanks Po sec Manny For your supports to our farmers of rice and onions in Nueva Ecija
Love the way steps are taken. God Bless you.
Agarang solusyon . Nice move to help onion farmers
Please pakibilisan po action
Thank you sir
Sec Manny, DA must build cold storage facilities in areas where it is mostly needed & must be manned by govt personnel just like the NFA warehouses. If you have an unused NFA warehouse you can just convert them as cold storage. Make sure you solarize them too pra bumaba  ang OpEx mo! Bili kau ng solar panels gawa s Batangas meron nman tau planta dun at baka makahingi p kau discount!
👊🏽👊🏽👊🏽
Its about time. MannyPiñol ❤️
Ung mga dating problima kasi ngaun lang mga nakikita pero ang maganda sa ngaun inaaksyunan na hindi tulad nuon na pinababayaan lng kaya sa mga susunod na anihan jan ninyu mararamdaman kung ano ung mga ginagawa ngaung pag aayus at aksyun kaya hindi natin pwedeng sabihin na too late...
Mark Arman Aquino MannyPiñol kaya napipilitang ibenta ng mga magsasaka sa mga land developers gawa ng mga mapagsamantalang tao. Palakasin natin ang agrikultura diyan nanggagaling ang pagkain natin. Ung mga building at imprastraktura mapapakain ba tayo ng mga yan. We need our farmers. Palakasin ang agrikultura ipagbawal ang pagbenta ng lupang sakahan. Bigyan ang mga magsasaka ng suporta hindi lang pinansiyal pati additional na kagamitan. More foods less prices sa market mababawasan ang mga nagugutom. So that farmers and consumers will benefit each other.
Mark Arman Aquino it's not too late . Kung paano dumating si Pres. Duterte sa buhay natin ganoon din si DA Manny Piñol sa mga farmers....
Tessie B. Tekla 8 pesos nalang sa mindoro ang good. Grabe talaga. Mabuti nkahabol pa aq sa 27 per kilo.
ang pagbabago yan hindi yan magagawa sa isang tulog lang. Buti nalang at nabigyan na yan ng atensyon ngayon. Di lang union pati rin coconut farmers natin. Kawawa ang farmers, masaya ang negostante.
I strongly agree with you Sir,  directive  para sa farm produce buying prices...yun sana..
You hit the point. That is a solution..and also dysfunctional importations and agricultural smuggling should be addressed. We are off to wake in a better world.
Mercy Viray Admana totoo po yan... di hamak na mas malasa ang bawang natin.
Talaga..frustration ko yan eh. Sana we can enjoy our very own onions and garlic na lang. Alisin na yang competition na yan. Mura nga, pinapatay naman ang sa atin tlga.
Thank you, Sec Emmanuel Pinol, for the announcement just right on time. The onion harvest season in Mindoro just started. GOD SPEED! And GOD BLESS OUR FARMERS.
10 per kilo pasalamat pa...
may bumibili po ng 15 pesos dito San jose
Depende sa klase ng sibuyas yan.
Gabby Sebastian sir hindi naman po lagi, last year po ang Occ at Or Mindoro malaki ang kinita dahil nagkaharabas ang sa Nueva Ecija ngayon lahat umani ng maganda nagkaproblema naman sa presyo. Dagdagan pa ng mga  cartel na bweset ayaw buksan ang ibang storage para ung ibang mamimili ay walang storage kaya nagstop buying para kong maari hingin nalang sa farmer ang sibuyas. Ang maganda pa nyan ang cartel ang nagbibigay ng puhunan sa mga trader pautang ng seeds abono and etc. Tapos pagganitong pagkakataon halos hingin nalang sa farmer ang harvest...
Yes... We really needs government intervention...protect our locsl farmers...
Dodskie Daygunla  please, please   Sec Pinol . Please protect our Filipino farmers🙏
Cora Ranada ...🙏🙏...Sometime we seek Devine Intervention.
If only our farmers consolidate and have their respective cooperatives, then the farmers would not worry about selling their produce for a lower price. This way the local products are sold directly to the market or consumers and no middleman. It’s both a win-win situation for our local farmers and us the consumers👍
Farmgate price=cost of production plus profit
Kung ito sana ang nilalaman ng directive...siguradong matutuwa pa ang mga farmers.
Mardy Roque Ornedo yes ang executive order at gawan na provisions solve ang industria ng agricultura.
Sec Emmanuel Pinol, the GREED of capitalists know no bounds.  They are just thinking of huge profits on the backs of the onion  farmers whose produce will be bought at even less than production costs.    Thank you for all your timely interventions to prevent their continuous exploitation of our onion farmers.
Manny Pinol:  No onion importation pending cartel probe....   Doctor: We must give these dead people the best medicine available to mankind...
👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏 that could be done long ago..but thank you Sec Pinol
It’s not too late para sa future harvest nalang.
Sec. Pinol,  pls propose for the acquisition /making of cold storages for the use of our farmers,  even if they have to  rent for the space that they will use..
Sally Pis-o . Pansamantala ipatil muna ang rice importation habang nag aani pa kasalukuyan ang buong Region ng Pilipinas, para makatulong sa presyo ng palay. Maawa naman kayo sa mga magsasaka.
Good job DA total ban on import sa onion it looks like the onion industry can sustain local needs
We know that you're taking actions sir.. please help our farmers.. why do we even need to import goods if our local production is enough.. a vast supply of imported goods cause too much supply availability therefore lower price.. our farmers have no choice but to sell their harvest at a devastatingly low price not even able to make a break-even with their cost of production... have mercy to our farmers., buy from our local small producers/farmers... sariling atin muna bago ang import mula s ibang bansa...
Protect locally produced onion.   Investigate  and prosecute any anomalous  and artificially created situations.
Mabuhay po secretary Pinol ! Godbless
This makes sense. That's good enough.
put up cold storage for the farmers sir
Nico Busto tama ka jan igso nakapag import na cla.,
Good job Manny pinol
Never too late guys.
🙏🙏🙏
Right
Very good
yes!!!!
Davy Halliday explains a lot bro
Good news Yan
praying for its success
Praying for success
We salute you Sir Manny Pinol!
Support local products... Buy agila tires....coconut cooking oil.....
Let's see if this will increase the buying price of raw rubber within 1 year,then we can say it's successful.Hoping...
Excellent yan
We need investors .. some entity to process our latex .
Congratulations, great job!
Every  long journey starts with a single step! Congratulations!
Getting there!!!
sana po yong  quality is good
Sir pls check my pm to your page. Naandoon na po yong design ng eagle. Di kasi maupload dito sa comment box. Thank you and more power!
YEBA!  For the rubber coop!!
Yes we support philippine rubber product.
Thank You Sec. Manny Piñol👊
A big YES to #SuportaLokal ❤
Hope also all government vehicle one of the sample to all pilipino to fist buy Philippine product
We support pilipinas made.
Creating its own industry and local market. Thailand is also suffering from low price of rubber, they might also copy this for their tuktuk
We have to start somehow somewhere!
Sana sir Manny may bike tires din hehe
Support Local Products and Local Market 🎉
God Bless po! Good job po
Leowin Tatoy Briones mao diay familiar jud sa akoa ang dalan sir pagka kita naku tong bag o pana gi post ni Sec. Pinol. 👍👍👍
Right
Super. Supper,
Goodjob
Congrats
Yes
wow ha
Bliss
This is good to know Sir Manny Pinol.
MannyPiñol ahh okay Sir..salamat sa reply..abi nako pwede na sa tanan labi na,sa member sa farmers association..amping kanunay Sir
very good program Gov. MannyPiñol
Wowww
Congratulations
Congratulations
This is the idea of Bill Gates in solving poverty..May the poverty in the Philippines eliminated..
for the farmers association,pls be cautious in expanding your production as egg prices is very volatile.feeds price is always increasing.make sure there is still enough room for expansion or increasing production in your area.egg commodity is perishable n you cant keep it for long.
Hopefully not coconut farmers. Else they'd really be disappointed.
At least steps are being taken sec... don’t lose hope—just keep doing what you’re doing
good suggestion.
Jobs Bantayan good suggestion.. and palm oil is not environment-friendly.
mao jud na unta pati sa rice kung pwede lang Sir MannyPiñol
since 2008, i have been promoting also the VIRGIN COCONUT OIL (VCO) and the use of coconut oil for cooking.. I am strongly discouraging Filipinos from using canola oil, palm oil, vegetable oil, soya bean oil as they are highly toxic and have been causing serious health concerns..  VCO helped me get well from my health crisis (ovarian cysts, severe endemetriosis and small myomas).. Philippines is very blessed to be abundant with coconut trees.. DOH, Dept of Education and DA have to work hand in hand in telling the Filipinos about the healthy truth about coconuts.  Sadly, the doctors wont tell this fact to you...on how VCO can heal a lot of serious health concerns...
Needs to promote benefits of coconut oil/milk so people must  be aware healthy na mas mura pa .
Akhiro Tau agree po dpt iban ang softdrinks sa schools buko juice n lng. Hehe
been drinking the very healthy highly nutritious buko juice.. 2 buko vendors are selling fresh buko along United Nations Ave. Let us post photos of us drinking buko juice in the most artistic creative way - along the street, inside our home or resto or beside a coconut tree.. im sure this will be lots of fun to encourage the young and adult alike to join this great advocacy of promoting good health at the same time helping our coconut farmers and our nation.. Let's Do It!!!!
Lilieae Ripplinger tumpak ang observation mo maam , dito sa europa ang taas ng presyo ng produkto galing sa niyog , advertised nila ng maganda , sa europa ang mag sasaka ay hindi nag hihirap dahil binibigyan halaga ang kanilang pawis ng kanilang gobyerno dapat lang na bigyan ng fair trade deal ang mga magsasaka sa pinas para naman ganahan pa sila lalo magtanim
Bonnie Javier he dont insist  Sadly for the past years it was neglected by the coco authorities and Govt  No one made the initiative to divert  So the poor farmers still into kopra. Last oct after coco industry was returned to da  Sir manny put this into his vision  To finally venture to that But may Take time and budget  But atleast I trust sir Manny he will do his best to accomplish that
Jigs Dolores Ignacio the coco levy fund must be returned to the  farmers tru this endeavor. It should be used to established  coco processing plants.
Bonnie Javier correct po,d2 sa ibang bansa napaka mahal ang coconut organic virgin oil, coconut flour, coconut milk, coconut cream, coconut water . coconut health drinks...etc...lahat ng mga vegan at vegetarian people ginagamit nla sa pag luluto nang galing sa coconut, coconut virgin oil, coconut flour,coconut sugar, coconut milk and cream . ang water nla is coconut water . napaka healthy tlaga po ang coconut...Ang dami po tlaga pwede magawa mula sa niyog..
Bonnie Javier yes I hope so too. But just recently prrd vetoed the bill because I think he saw it is lacking to protect the interest of the farmers  Possible the corrupt will benefit  So it is very important to elect congresman and senators who really think of the people and not how much they can get
Hi sir Manny Piñol,   How about working on regulation - removal for palm oil?  Then for grass roots, the department can help the farmers by providing an avenue for them to process their own, removing the middle men and traders. It can be achieved by putting resources for them to process and produce. The market price will follow.  Empower your farmers/producers para they dont need to go through middlemen.   Theres a program and system for this. All it needs is the implementation of DA, hand in hand with the entities na sakop ng value chain.   Listen to your farmers. They are your stakeholders and your industry.   Agriculture will save this country and its people.
Boe Sison this is a very good question sir. What we're trying to achieve is to regulate muna the palm oil given its unsustainable practice. Pero hindi agad agad, what we can do is transition the existing palm oil farmers into other coconut product or produce since malaki ang supply natin ng coconuts at from root to tip ay may industry.
Coconut tree is the Tree of Life.. it is very true indeed..  Oil from palm trees in the meantime, causes havoc to environment and to our health..
We have here a competent Secretary. And what we are praying for, that you may have  more strength sir. We thank you for all yhe effort for the benefit of public/farmers. Godbless
Prioritize also the price of whole coconut being sold to the market. It will surely be a huge help to the farmers. I remember last year the price per kilo was 15-16 pesos, now it drastically went down at 2.50pesos per kilo.
Francis Rivera yes he is in to that direction right after coco industry was returned to da in oct   Thats on his vision  We Just need to pray and support him and hope the budget be Release
Not enough gyud Sec.Piñol.
Support buko juice industry, instead softdrinks, support coconut oil instead palm oil in the market, support a any pinoy products instead of other imported product for the first solution,, go secretary Manny Piñol...
we appreciate the effort.
25 pesos Sec. Piñol. Thanks
Make it happen immediately!!!
I love young coconuts
At least you trying your best.
sir MannyPiñol, please standard it at minimum 30Php/kilo. Thank you
better
Sec Manny Pinol, you got a good man in DA, Dr Santiago Obien who has been pushing for farm mechanization ever since for higher productivity. He can surely be of big help in this pursuit.  Chat with this fine gentleman twice...
Good news sir bravo!
Right
We can build up a Super Logistics national scale for our farmers, picking up, delivering, storing, processing, manufacturing, packing, airfreighting, oceanfreighting, exporting, trading their goods worldwide. Help us help our farmers!
Rene Pamintuan  Cipy po.Thank ypu Sir.
MannyPiñol  thank you, sec!
Antonio Gerundio  thank you. This is good. And fast!
Salamat sir Manny  Praying to be part of your team soon.  God bless sir Take care always
Sir I hope this will finally lower the market cost of onion. If I will compare the rates here to Dubai wherein onion is being imported from India per kg there is only from php13 during vegetable Market day every Wednesday evening. And php26 on normal days. Same thing with coriander, spring onions, kinchay etc with a fixed rate of php 13 per bundle.
Smart decision Mr Sec👍
Good job
Nice Sec
#SecPiñol, sa Mlang nyo nalang ilagay po yan. Make it an example. Lapad2x sang Mlang kag damo basakan toh.
Kung ayaw nila..trnasfer them to our place, the project is very much welcome here in the cordillera. They want to control over the people kaya ganun.
now up to the people of north cotabato if they will continue to choose and elect these kinds of self centered politicians who only think of their political ambitions rather than the benefit of the people. i read your previous post sir how they held back the program DA had initiated to help the people  but for them politicking comes first your project should fail because the people will end  up voting for your relatives should it succeed. so these kinds of politicians are the kinds who really dont deserve to be in office  they are "politician" and you are sir Manny and your family are   " great public servant" i cant contribute  to help prrds administration for i am ofw as dh here in hk. replying to some frustrated farmers  or some people who discredit you is the only thing i can do. but i will always  support you and pray that you succeed sir  and hope one day the farmers fishermens of our land will finally see the hardwork that you and this administration si doing for them. God bless you sir... thanks for your hardwork sir.
Jigs Dolores Ignacio salamat.
Mraming mraming salamat sa inyu sir
Trabaho lang Sec. Manny, ipagpatuloy ang kabuhayan ng mga magsasaka! Looking for the best place for abundant water source underground? There is a scientific method that we are specialized, experienced, and available all over Philippines. If you have any requirements for AQUIFER (underground water pool) location you can avail of our services for georesistivity testing and deepwell drilling. 09301542115- Gerick Padilla
Just push it Secretary Piñol and keep on posting for people to know. Do not mind those Polpolitician.  Their constituents would know it soon. Just keep on informing the people.
THIS TIME SECRETARY PINOL YOU ARE DOING A VERY GOOD JOB?
Excellent performance
Correct Sec. Kung ayaw, eh di wag.. 👍👍👍 there are other recipient provinces that would be happy to get more..
Continue your good work, Sec Manny 👍 We support you 👊😊
ah mao d i ni... ok kaayu..
👊🏻👊🏻👊🏻
Cris Ian Pizon yes of course. Thats the other set up.
This together with solar powered desalination might be a better option than a dam that would submerge thousands of hectares of land valuable for agriculture. What do you think, Sec. Piñol?
this is so applicable to a tropical country like the Philippines...longer summers and drought-like weather...job well done to u Mr. Secretary!🇵🇭
Wow. Thanx israel..  ols share here nefros oriental... top retirement place by forbes magazine
There is a fb group hr Ram Pump Philippines. The govt can get some inputs. Support is needed for R&D.  Other LGUs is already implementing the project you can browse in youtube.
go Sec Pinol!
Right
🇵🇭🇮🇱❤️❤️❤️
Wow
Solar pumps and solar desalination plants to help create salt for our fisherfolk and fresh water for our people would be the next revolution Israel could give us! Go Sec Manny!
kudos sec.Pinol and the israleli agri experts!
Support the president and his team ❤️🇵🇭🤜🦅🇺🇸
Thank you israel!!! God bless
God bless..
Nice
Nice
Great job!
anything that would help the economy of pinas should be appreciated!!
Sec Manny, if Cotabato politician opposes that brilliant idea, offer it then to the many provinces who need that and who, with their open arms accept that blessings for their farmers.  Until you have filled the many places with solar panels, let us see saan pulutin yung Politician in Cotabato pag nakita ng mga constituents nya ang reason nya for declining it. Sa kangkungan for sure ang lagpak nya pag ang mga tao na ang decide sa kanya.  Just keep the people informed Secretary at patuloy po kayo maging matapang at tapat sa inyong pagsisilbi sa bayan.  Maraming salamat sa inyong sipag at lagi po kayo mag ingat. 😊
yan si GOV pinol at gobernadora ng cotabato kontra partido kasi yan kaya pati mga farmers damay.pa molitika lng cgi sana kapakanan nman ng mamamayan atupagin nila.
Kunti lang kasi ang madudukot di tulad ng dam tiba tiba😝😝😝
hikay sila sir o laban gid nahisa lang na sir kay damo ka proyekto.
Pahikaya lng sila sec ah.. Wala sila kabalo ka importansya sang solar irrigation.. Hindi pa nila mabatyagan ang kaayu sinong project.. Sooner or later dumdumon ka gd sang naga benepisyo sini nga project...
Grabe nman sila,   diri n lng ns sa amon ibutang kay subra 300 has ang rainfeed lng. Kabudlay gid sang farming nmon halis nabutang lng s water pump kita nmon. Praying nga mahatagn mn kmi sina diri.
Excellent job sir Manny👊👊👊
Good job SEC. PINOL
Good Job Sec.Piñol your in the right tract for the Pilipino’s
Kong paramihin yan sa mindanao ... super wow pwede na gagawa rice terraces sa mindanao   power by solar ... pipeline system
Syempre indi sila ka komisyon. Pero kung dam na tibatiba sila.
Talhal Bai  yan ang tanong ni Pinoy noon , ang gamit ng solar para sa patubig hindi problema kung walang init kasi meron itong pundo sa battery , wala naman siguro 1 buwan na walang init ang Pilipinas. Sana na unawaan mo itong explanation ko , ang mahalaga na ang Seretary ng Agricultura natin ay hindi binubulsa ang pera na laan sa agricultura at umiikot siya sa lahat ng probinsiya para matulungan at mapalakas ang atong Agricultura kasi huli na tayo sa manga katabing bansa natin 🦅🦅👊🏼
Talhal Bai may battery ito para mag imbak ng power na tatagal ng ilang araw depende sa gamit. kung walang init sa mahabang panahon ay ibig sabihin nito ay umulan so hindi na kailangan ang irrigation. Gets nyo? Iba kasi ang domestic requirement sa solar keysa irrigation.
Please po sa Panay area din...thanks
soil management in agriculture industry or crop management system seems overlooked, i.e. the best soil pH of various crops, how to check and correct or cure the soil if necessary for optimum intake of nutrients, enhance plant growth and maximise the much needed increase in production..
If they want to solve the problem regarding the water shortage electricity shortage job shortage food shortage government should be open the BATAAN NUCLEAR POWER PLANT and build more small nuclear power plant in other parts in this country.. Because if the BNPP will open and they put the nuclear desalination plant that sea water becomes fresh water. The problem will be solved.. Look the dubai they used nuclear power plant desert country but now they make farm to feed they own people why because they have clean water and cheap water cheap electricity... Even China they used nuclear power plant they feed they billions own people and they give jobs why because they have cheap water cheap electricity.. And we can compare here in our country.. we have expensive water and the most expensive expensive electricity bill around the world that is why we have water shortage electricity shortage food shortage job shortage..and because not enough jobs people no money to buy expensive foods medicines and to pay expensive electricity bills and water bills minsan mangungutang pa huwag lang maputalan ng ilaw at tubig its very difficult to the life of the people.. That is why many Filipino people kapit patalim.. Like going to the other countries to find jobs they never think if they are safe in there? Some Filipino committing crime  and prostitution... Why because the past administration they give all public utilities to the private sectors that they hearths is love only money.. Never cares to the life of the people.. But still locky because we have a good president now... But the bad news is some cabinets members of the president is not the same hearth of the president...they hearths is the same of oligarchs that they God is money never care to the life of the people.. People are created to be love and things are created to be used the reasons why the Philippines are in chaos, is because things are being love and people are being used because of money...
Peter sinata ang nuclear power plant ng Japan correct me if I'm wrong ay nasa 5 miter above the sea at ang tsunami ay may taas na 7 miter at ang lakas na earthquake ay intensity 9 at walang napaulat na taong namatay dahil sa radiations ang pumatay sa tao doon ay tubig baha... Now kumpara natin ang BATAAN NUCLEAR power plant na may taas na 18 miter above the sea at para abutin ng tsunami ang BATAAN NUCLEAR Power plant kailangan ang lakas ng earthquake ay aabot ng intensity 18 at kung ang lindol or earthquake ay aabot ng intensity 18 gunaw napo ang mundo bukas man o sarado ang BNPP at isa pa po kung masama talaga sa kalusugan talaga ang nuclear power plant bakit patuloy gumagamit ang Japan ng nuclear power plant..at isa lang ang nakikita ko ang mga cabinets adviser ng kanilang leader ay may pusong makatao ayaw nlang nakikitang namamatay sa gutom ang kanilang mamayan gumawa sila ng malinis sufficient at cheaper energy sources para makatunaw sila ng metal na gagamitin nila para sa kanilang tools and equipment... Kaya meron silang mga company ng sasakyan na ginagamit nila sa pagawa ng foods at iba pa..
Fhlo Payoc opo, if tama po yung naaalala ko 4 po ang nuclear power plant ng japan, tapos marami narin silang solar farm. Kaya lumilipat na sila sa electric sa pag luto instead of gas. May nabasa rin po ako na pati hot shower magiging powered na by electricity. Kaya po balance ang gas sa japan.  Wag po tayong mawalan ng pag asa. Mag boto lang po tayo ng mga taong sa tingin natin ay maka bayan. Tsaka supporta lang kay pres digong, malalim ang butas na inaakyat natin, pero hindi impossibling maakyat.
Maraming pakinabang ang nuclear power plant kahit ang nuclear waste nito ginagamit sa medicines ginagawa itong isotopes na gamit sa aparato ng hospitals ang tawag nila ay MRI... Ang design ng nuclear power plant ay pambuhay ng tao just imagine ang bansang China ang population nila ay billions of people Samantalang tayo dito sa Philippine mahigit 100 million lang katumbas lang ng tao nlang namamasyal sa I bat-ibang bansa o tourist.. At ngayon pinagaaralan nila kung paano magtanim sa moon dahil successful na ang pagtatanim nila sa disyerto.. AAng nakakalongkot lang ang karamihan na naririnig kung mga politico even cabinet member gusto nila gayahin Singapore na npakaliit na population.. Kaya siguro sinasadya nila ang pag turok ng dengvaxia pag tataas ng presyo ng gamot at pagkain pagtaas ng singil sa koryente at tubig dahil ang gusto nila patayin at bawasan ang Filipino yan ang mga nakikita ko sa mga balita pinapatay nila ang Filipino na walang kaalamalam ma's gusto nila protektahan ang oligarchs kaysa sa kanilang kababayan..
the only answer👏👏👏
Lets plant millions of trees Sec. Pacific ocean is just next to us. Whatever water evaporated from d ocean on day time will surely condense to our forrest on night time.
Pontius Gogo ...perfect solution...plant a tree and make it cool
Absolutely true! Underground water depends on stored water from rainfall and network of surface water winding to the streams below ground. There is a scientific way of finding water underneath. If you have any requirements for AQUIFER (underground water pool) location you can avail of our services for georesistivity testing and deepwell drilling. 09301542115- Gerick Padilla
Rod Bioco you said it correctly!
William Dar sir we should rehabilitate our sick soils to become productive too..
Farmboy Coloma true, soil rejuvination is a must!
Plant more trees to conserve watersheds
The Philippines need a better vision in agricultural policies.   1. Start from the education system includes the agricultural subjects .  2. Educate and encourage the frames for giving more benefits.  3. Change the corrupted management system,   3.
Sir Manny just saying apil sa National Plan ang massive planting of trees all over the country,  involve the  Dep Ed labi ang mga graduating class to plant  native trees  as requirement for thier grafuation,dn strictly no illegal cutting of wild trees, ang
Hi all....I'd like to share my powerpoint presentation as guest speaker during the recent luncheon meeting of the Rotary Club of Davao entitled, "Water is Life". It argues that the most important factor in the water supply for human consumption is REFORESTATION. Emphasis: It's not the only one but it's arguably the one with the biggest effect. Check it out: https://goo.gl/Yg2EhL .
Ismael Tabije tama po kayo Thank you!
Public schools should be enjoined to build rainwater impounding dams/basins/tanks/wells. People who want to build small rainwater impounding dams/ basins/deep well in their property may be given subsidy. Usage of  impounded rainwater will reduce usage of water in dams.
Please spearhead planting of more trees. IT CAN MAKE A HUGE DIFFERENCE.
Increased water yield is not just about planting more trees but creating an environment containing a balanced flora (vegetation) and fauna (animals), insects, microbes, humidity, temperature, topography, etc etc... that would give optimum volume, good quality & perrineal (year-round) water yield.
We need forest cover to hold water. Underground water depends on stored water from rainfall and network of surface water winding to the streams below ground. There is a scientific way of finding water underneath. If you have any requirements for AQUIFER (underground water pool) location you can avail of our services for georesistivity testing and deepwell drilling. 09301542115- Gerick Padilla
Good thing meron po kayo plan to keep our water reserviours from being exploited.   Go solar irrigation!
Villa Alisha Sa batanes nga po sir dahil ang tataas ng bukid nila may kanya kanyang rain harvester ang bawat farmer
If the Iand is no longer fit for agriculture and just left unused better construct a rainwater collecting tank on it.Yung mga pdaf Ng mga senator at congressman na ninanakaw Lang Yun Ang gamitin pa finance.
Distribution of free rainwater containers can help conserve water in dams,
Desalination is the answer ...
Plant trees... Still the best solution..
Solid Waste Mgt. nato implement strictly from barangay level, Municipal Level up to National level with pinalties ang improper waste disposal
Jahannae Melecio Ang laki laki po ng loboc river nyo pangbalsa lang ng turista
We need more forests .....
Let’s plant trees.
We need more forests
Wow Kah Nice Thank You Sec Manny
Reforestration is a key.
agri has a tremendous impact in forest conservation especially on buffer zones. in partnership with denr, they can provide alternative livelihood to communities in these areas. and besides, alam ko mas malaki budget ang agri sa denr.
Simple solutions done by many, consistently, can solve water crisis. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9hmkgn0nBgk&list=PLOMZfBFOhU7sSlbeM4wGftCwMUQAewEDc&index=61
"Days of Cataclysmic Events has Come. You Need to Spend More Time with Him in these Days. Time is Ripe for Conversion."   Beyond all the Satanic worship, there are earth changes going on (causing natural disaster) - some are precipitated by few elite world leader/cabal and the most deadly are those cause by PLANET NIBIRU (Revelation 12:3-5 - Then another sign appeared in heaven: an enormous red dragon with seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns on its heads. Its tail swept a third of the stars out of the sky and flung them to the earth.) The Planet Nibiru (in it, is a hoards of fallen angels) is already in our solar system coming from a distant places of the Universe. (The sun keep on throwing solar flare but the earth is protected because of magnetic field. With Planet Nibiru approaching earth it gradually distorting the earth's magnetic field and when the Red Dragon is already close enough to earth which is imminent, it will break and tear apart the magnetic field for a while and tremendous solar storm will cause a huge geomagnetic storm on earth which will severely damage world's power grids and satellite system. The earth will experience temporary shutdown of electricity and internet.) Jesus said "I am not scarring you My children, I am just telling what is to come. A way of escape has been provided. Turn to Me and be save for I am God and there is no other. I formed light and create darkness. In me, there is protection.  Your Time is short, you must be awaken from a very a long sleep in the comfort of you feather beds. If you chose to fight the Lord will go and war with you. But that does mean that there will be no incidents of suffering. It means that I am on your side. I have already withheld several devastating blows because of the prayers of the citizens. I receive repentance as a myrrh, offered in solid gold censers. It is to me the most fragrant sacrifices, even in remembrance of my childhood, the gift of kings - and the Crucifixion. So many have repented and continue to repent daily, I cannot ignore their entreaties. Be ready for me to take you at any moment. Know the condition of your soul before me. Know that you are clean and ready to meet me. Spend time in worship and do not give your heart and mind to useless pursuits. Do not wait until calamity to settle accounts with me. Do not dangle your feet over the fence, but be firmly planted on the right side, not toying with sin. Even though I have work for you for several years still many of you are not ready. Many are caught up in the world and have no idea what could happen to them in the next minute. Therefore, they are not ready for what is coming. Many are putting off their conversion until it is too late. Do not be caught unaware. Do not drag your feet in repenting for your sins. Do not suppose you have tomorrow to do it. Your life could end this very night and if you have been delaying your complete conversion for a pet sin - your soul and destiny are in danger. MY BELOVED ONES, I WAITED FOR YOU DAY AND NIGHT TO SHARE TIME WITH YOU, TO AWAKEN YOUR HEARTS TO MY PASSIONATE LOVE FOR YOU. MOST OF YOU AVOID ME, BECAUSE YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW TENDERLY AND COMPLETELY AND UNCONDITIONALLY I LOVE YOU OR I AM IN LOVE WITH YOU. I HAVE NO ILLUSIONS ABOUT YOUR SHORT-COMINGS, BUT NONETHELESS, YOU ARE SO BEAUTIFUL TO ME. A PRECIOUS CREATION THAT HAS RECOGNIZED HER CREATOR IS BEYOND VALUE TO ME. SO MANY HAVE NOT RECOGNIZED ME, THAT WHEN FINALLY, ONE DOES, MY HEART BURST FOR JOY TO BE IN COMMUNION WITH SUCH A ONE AS THIS. If you really got that, you would not drag your feet coming into prayer. You would not be afraid to work on your faults, because I would say to you, "Come! let us reason together. These things are too much for you to handle on your own. Let me live through you and help you handle them. Let's do this together, holding hands and working our way through them." That's my heart - and yet you distance yourself  from Me, because of the false guilt, Satan continually accuses you with. All that matters to Me is that we be reconciled. That you finally find your home in My Heart, never to depart from there. In My heart you hear My voice, feel My emotions, rest in My arms, and be kept from the constant, snapping jaws of wolves and jackals assigned to torment you with false guilt. This is where I want you to be in My heart: Free from disputing , contending, fearing, slinking away in false guilt; free from sin, and continually being kept free from sin. This is your heritage. This is why I died on the cross to obtain it for you. Do not waste anymore time confessing and repenting of your sins; you do not know what tomorrow holds for you. But if you are in Me, you know that my open arms and heart are always in your tomorrows, and you needn't fear the plaque that destroys at noon, nor the terror of the night, nor...
Wow beautiful
Miat Dualan ... free irrigation na po ngayon , no fees ...just this DU30 administration time anc i hope they will improve more
Miat Dualan free irrigation now is true.....
Miat Dualan There will always be drought, and there is no end in sight to corruption with this ever growing population.   Data is coming into agriculture in a meaningful way because of consumers demand transparency and technology offers it as a value add.   What I’m saying here is that technology will lend a great deal of transparency in the next 10 years, much like camera discourage wrongdoing on the road.    Unless the country has the political will to take draconian steps like Singapore, the next best thing we can do is promote technologies that promote transparency (and therefore accountability).
Miat Dualan true!!!!!daming bllah blah blah.pero yan ang pinakatotoo!!!!!!napakayaman ng pilipinas napakaganda ng batas na pinas pero sinisira ng nakaupong corrupt!!!!!!
Miat Dualan the solar powered  irrigation system are given to  groups of farmers free. They dont pay for it. They will only be trained and tasked to operate and take care of it.
Victor Chico at least lesser burden to farmers if NIA are no longer collecting fees. About technical works , we have other govt  agencies like DA , NIA, DENR , LGUs , and others to help the farmers.
MannyPiñol kailangan mo ng tulong sir pwede ako making partner mo sir
Dito sa tabing  barangay namin ang lakas ng patubig solar irrigation po.salamat po sec many.pero po yung isa naman po sablay laki p naman gastos ng DA sec
Mind set ng pinoy ang nkakaproblema hindi ang proyekto ng pangobyerno.alam kasi ng mga pinoy hanapan ng butas kung sino ang nkaupo sa posisyon sa gobyerno.its start in your own way to find a remedy para masolbad ang problema sa pang agrikultura.hindi kay magsalig nlng sa goberno kapangayo permi.mangayo lng ayuda sa goberno indi kay puro nlng pangayo.tinamad na abi ang iban ta nga mangunguma.may ara mn k nakikila nga mga ngdatu sa uma sa ila lng nga diskarte makaharvest mn bisan tig irinit.hindi lng mn isa ka tanum lng saligan.mangita iban option eh para mkatanum mn sang iban nga makwartahan.
Marami ang nagawa ng administration duterte esp sa Department of Agriculture. Hindi lng naibalita sa mga bias na medya... :-)
MannyPiñol i've seen only selected region sa project niyo na yan. It should be whole nation para nmn talagang totoo.
Miat Dualan follow mo si sec. Lodi para updated ka. Hindi yun hula hula sinasabe mo. Just saying
MannyPiñol kung ayaw nila tanggapon bigay nyo na lang po sa amin around 1500-2000 hectares ang benificiaries Sisiman, Lutayan, Sultan Kudarat
MannyPiñol hopefully it will given free the irrigation system unless their is favorable to compadres system like happened in our cooperative the seedling and other machine equipment  not given to the right farmers beneficiary. Do the right things and should be everything will be on the record many farmers are used only for making front for corruption. This is based on our town Northern Samar Old Rizal please do necessary investigation.
Jaee Zell kaya nga maam noh.lugar pa man din sana ni manny pinol. d2 midsayap 500p/hect.
MannyPiñol Sec... please... help mo naman po yong irrigation namin dito sa baranggay Angas Batan Aklan.. na makumpuni.. kc dapat 3 na baranggay ang makikinabang nito.. please....
Miat Dualan very well said
I agree with Miat Dualan.
MannyPiñol i hope makarating din ung free irrigation d2 samin sa albay bicol tnx
Anthony Tan your right! But all these farmers want (including myself and my family) is balance of the cost. We spent to much to plant crops not just for seedlings but labor as well but when we sell the product they just want to buy it for such a low price that sometimes does not even cover the cost of what the farmers invested not counting natural calamities will struck the farm (rats and flooding). Yes I do understand the supply and demand, but government should understand as well that timing is everything in farming.
I guess the president have to take notice of this! Or everyone must ring the bell 8888.
Stephanie Kho both wisely...sound good...pag na nalo ang opposition.. guera naman sa congress.. divided we fall... mag tiwala nalng tayo kay digong
Ajrah Khalil Yeap!! I hope they will realize the bigger picture of these ideas!
Mismo...lalim na.
Zeno Ryujin koeck
In Israel, I saw with my own eyes how the wonders of dessertification, fertigation, drip irrigation, desalination, aquaponics and others worked in Israel, making it a very productive country as far as food production - and even cutflowers - is concerned. Israelis envy us because we have bountiful water resources which are not well harvested and wisely used. Their techniques are now in our farms and our farmers, aided by government, should learn more and adopt them to local conditions.
Mr Gabot, thanks for your observations. God bless your tribe. I too appreciate Israel as model for agriculture.
The Philippines SPIS Program will become as famous as drip irrigation in Isreal, where I have been and seen with my own eyes. We at WELL PUMPS BELGIUM and BISOL SLOVENIA are very proud to be involved with this program and look forward to supporting it for many years to come..
Thank you sir Ed Skinner for introducing your solar products here in the Philippines and putting SPIS in one Barangay of our town in Cagayan Province by thr Department of Agriculture will boost the spirits of our farmers...and hoping that the LGU's will add more specially along the Cagayan River and its tributaries like Pared River.
Thanks much
George we are honoured to be involved through our local partners to bring our top class solutions from Europe for the SPIS program, and assure our continued support in the years to come..
thank you Sir
Ed Skinner great opportunity! Good luck and God bless! Beware of the red tape problem with the bureaucracy and the never ending corruption!
Rene this is the reason why we work with local importers/dealers/installers who are experienced in all these matters..
Ed Skinner people like you are really a blessing to us filipino farmers...God bless you and your company.
Rene Lemar Ramel I must say that as a foreign manufacturer/supplier we have not encountered any hint of corruption within the DA.. We have had meetings with officials at all levels and all matters have been open and above board.. Of course regarding "red tape" this is normal with all Government departments Globally, so nothing special here...... As I stated above we are proud to be involved and are fully committed to the program.
We've been using solar irrigation system in our farm in Tacunan since 2011 pa! At that time 250 pesos/watt ang cost ng solar panels. Ngaun about 25 pesos/watt n lng! Our country is now producing solar panels in Batangas! Duon n dapat bumili ang gobyerno or buy directly from Chinese manufacturers pra makamura tayo! Sec Manny, please re-evaluate current actual project cost ng SPIS pra po mas marami makinabang n farmers kung mas mura ang bayad ntin sa mga contractors!
Gerardo Empleo Suello agree with you. Solar panels here in China is cheaper compared to other countries because of the lots of producers.
Antonio Goyala Dre solar panel cost lng yan 25 pesos/watt. Ang total package ng solar pumping system also includes pump controller &  solar panel racking system which will require additional cost!
MannyPiñol Sir, we can minimize the impact of the el niño if we have good zoning. For example in Gensan, those areas in Brgy Mabuhay, Conel and Katangawan are converted to residential areas but this area fully irrigated by NIA. This are agricultural lands that can sustain even during the el niño last 2014 to 2016.  Tambler and Sinawal areas on the other side were not irrigated because of no water supply but are not developed as residential because it was owned by politicians...  We need to conserved our agricultural lands to supply food at lower cost.
I still believe Sir MannyPiñol that  parallel to this brilliant recommendation of yours is another measure which has been promoted and applied by DA-BSWM since  Marcos administration ---  the Artificial Rain making or cloud seeding. It is about time that it should be institutionalized. You are right in saying that this drought problem of the country which is worsening as we all know should be addressed by making use of the enemy's strength ( El Niño) itself. We must seed the clouds both the warm and cold clouds.  Our neighbor Thailand has been doing it the past 40-50 years yet we are not doing it.    There are budgetary concerns about this I understand but this is an investment or a program that has been proven many times. I understand that there are oppositors on  this program esp the mango growers on the other hand thia is a welcome thing to palay farmers .  Indeed there is a need to strike a balance on this. Maybe it is about time to really recommend properly zoning system of our farming sector just like what Thailand has done.
I think sir MannyPiñol  Emmanuel Pinol what the Philippines needs is building  dams to store rain water. With the rainy season in the Philippines, the country will have enough water during dry season. I’m in California where there are 300 days of sunshine and 60 days of rain (winter season). So during winter time there are snowpacks in the mountains that store all this water in the form of ice. Then later in the year it will melt and goes to all the dams. All these water are stored so it can be used by the people from Northern to Southern California.  That’s the main reason why we have enough water. So the Philippines has to build dams for the people to have enough water to use in their households, businesses, infrastructures, and farming or irrigation. I just hope this will be one of the projects of Pres. Duterte during his term. Thanks.
Israel is blessed with BRAINS none with oil.....yun ang comment ni PM Benjamin Netanyahu .....as a result they make the desert BLOOM
Vasha Quitua meron napong oil refinery ngayon ang ISRAEL kaya mas lalong yumayaman nasila🤩🤩🤩🤩🤩🤩🤩🤩🤩
Biro mo yan May brains na May oil refinery pa
Vasha Quitua true po yan search nyo pa🤩🤩🤩🤩🤩🤩🤩🤩
relax sir manny, tarlac's balog-balog dam project is not done yet, it was started almost 40 years ago....you are in that  job barely some years and have done more than the 30 years of your predecessors combine
Sana po matuloy na sya.
MannyPiñol sa bicol po sa bato lake buhi lake needs solar water pumps
Yes indeed, I saw it in Israel they are growing bananas with net, and the are growing mangoes .now  they have more mangoes than Philippines. Fruits n vegetables are so healthy n bigger sizes than ours.
Mr. Sec some of us do not need the loan, pero nkkalumpo po ang materials & accessories ng solar system. Kung sana gaya ng Israel n they produce the materials khit saan mgllagay po kmi d2 s Sultan Kudarat & South Central Cotabato ng Solar Energy System khit s mga poultries din. S mahal ng singil ng Socoteco at Sukelko. Yes just a little help from ur end will make magic! Masisipag po kmi but that is not enough.. govt must always be in the forefront....
Lloyd Steven yes its true! We just need to use our heads properly! Solar pumping system have been in existence for quite sometime!
Malaking check.lalo may mga rebelde.at walang sapat na kalsada sa mga bukid.wala Naman dapat magutom Kung matyaga Lang sa pagtatanim at walang katatakutang rebelde sa bukid...napansin ko Kasi dto sa Jordan.napakaliit Lang nMan na bansa ito pero lahat ata NG bukid may mga kalsada na.kaya nakakapagtanim CLA kahit papano...
May nakita din PO ako.gumawa CLA ng malaking reservoir underground Kaya during rain season nakakacollect CLA ng maraming tubig.pinagkakasya nila sa pananim nila during dry season.marunong Lang Tau magtanim at magtipid..walang magawa Ang El niño satin
Sir make it happen spis program will be your legacy for many generation..
There were already farmers using solar powered pump long before you became a secretary of agriculture because of the neglect of past administration. I hope the implementation of SPIS will benefit those who really have no natural water source to irrigate their lands.
We can also adopt the technology of Israel.. Despite of weather and soil conditions they are still able to cultivate and produce crops.. Its amazing how they do it.. If they can, why can't the Philippines do?
Nowadays, copy paste is the "IN THING"... follow what the Israelites did... they have the technology...
Learm from others , adopt their knowledge  and implement to our country.
Thank you Sir Manny for sharing this paper. What is high lighted is the reconition on the importance of Water in agri: sourced gravity or any power as in solar power. May I repeat my request, pls cause to have a course in Universities,ex, UP Los Banos re Water Engineering patterned after Israel. Thanks.
If no corruption, everything is possible here mr. Manny Pinol.
Thank you, Sec. Piñol for having a proactive stance on disasters like El Niño... I hope that with your persistence, our farming and agricultural practices will finally embrace proactive technology to enhance and sustain productivity.
Thanks
Sec. MannyPiñol  sir..i think we need a law for solar irrigation system so the Government will be obliged to allocate the yearly budget for the solar irrigation system..
exactly as you had said sir secretary, in my place as of now i am overlooking the river  and yet the ricefields looks like chocolate in color,, where will we submit the proposal on solar powered pump, pls help sir...
MannyPiñol thanks po sir
Sec Emmanuel Pinol, the greatest achievement of the Israeli scientists is that THEY MADE THE DESERT BLOOM!  We should find out how they did it!! Thank you!
MannyPiñol at 7:15, BATAAN NUCLEAR PLANT.!! Its the safest. Solar is weak and irregular. And 15:59.
Pano dw kung wlang araw sabi ni pinoy haha
MannyPiñol, sir mahirap po talaga palitan ang mind set ng naka gisnang teknolohiya ng mga kapatid natin, I hope you could visit San Mateo, Isabela especially ISU-SAN MATEO we are a school that specialized on agriculture we hope your ideas could translate to being used here as means to demonstrate the effectivenes of the ready available technologies,  God bless always!
Rod Bioco DA Sec, isa kang henyo 👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻
Nobody can beat israel in agriculture technology
Droughts can be solve during rainy season: educate people on Dams, crop suitability, ifficient irrigation, with technology of solar.  Qatar convert Salted water to drinkable water, seawages to edible water, same with israel.
Hydrophonics and Drip Irrigation... I’ve learned a lot from my internship in Israel ...
Sir medyo unfair ahahaha kasi Israel yan. In Israel, all good things can happen, and miracles are norm. We love 🇮🇱 Israel. GOD bless them and Ophir
Maui Manalo bakit sa mga pananim lang natin napansin na magaling ang Israel? Ang nakita kong pinaka magaling na nagawa ng Israel ay ang pagtayo nila ng kanikang bansa sa lupain ng mga Arabs.Yan ang kataka-taka. hahahahahaaaa...
They got the technology and they are not damn lazy..
Actually the old irrigation surface pumps (NS-50/80/100) commonly used by our farmers can still be used by just simply replacing the old diesel engine by a 3ph AC motor, pump controller and solar panels! Mas mura po pag ganito lng gawin nyo!  The biggest one can pump around 100,000 liters/hr and run by a 11kw AC motor! At mas maganda po pag belt driven lahat pra madali s farmers ang pag maintain! Mahirap po mag align ng coupling driven pump na high speed s bukid dahil wala pong gamit dun!
Gerardo actually we at WELL PUMPS  also manufacturer and supply controllers to bring power from solar to traditional AC Motors on pumps. We have been doing this for years not only for water pumping but also for water circulation, like swimming pools. See my recent post...
True.. Israel was able to survive the El Nido through out the years of its existence yet, their agricultural practice becomes a model even here in the country..
The reason why they have these great food supplies because they make used of their government fund wisely. Plus, diskarte! Gi-anad man gud ta from the past administrations na dawat lang ta unsay available. Make it happen, sir!
Sec Manny. I was surprised we have your same opinion. I am a farmer in a place without NIA irrigation, no deep wells, no river or creek by my farm. But the intense photosynthetic activity brought by the summer sun thrills me to plant because I know if executed right, this time will allow me to produce highest yield. I will PM you pics of my farm. I use drip irrigation on kalabasa and honestly it is amazing. Allow me to PM you pics on how its done
May we request then sir that we do the same way the other countries do as you illustrated?  We can only be successful in agriculture with the "FULL SUPPORT" of the Philippine government.
Farmer,landlords,Planter: we could always turn the agricultural land into another subdivision. Villars:😊
Natural mente may irrigation eh hehe! Ani bayin sec. Hehe.. wlang magic dyan
Time to the mind setting... Support secretary Piñol's idea of solar irrigations... Government must provide the necessary budget for this project, not only to support farmers but also to make sure that there will be adequate supply of food on the table...
Did anybody check out cropital.com You can invest and get the farmers funded.
Rene Lemar Ramel  any solution. That is what I am interested in.  Hope against hope Sabi nga
Way to go brod.  Maybe we cannot do anything as of now about the corruption. But your idea on solar powered pumps will alleviate the drought problem. And if the cost on a per kilowatt basis to operate it is  below the cost charged be electri power suppliers it will be a big help to our farmrs. And instead of loans why not subsidies? You are in a position wherein you can give meaning to the phrase "serve the people". It is the poor people who feel the burden taxes indirectly. Helping them thru subsidies is just like evening the playing field. We lose billions to corruption and those who benefit is a handful of corrupt politicians. It is time to see what this billions can do in the hands of our hardworking farmers.
What we need is the solid support from the national government.
superb antics Sec. Piñol! that's more we like the way you approach problems keep it up!
Farmer needed technology,,laboratory,,ang more skill in crops,,
Mainly because the governments of these countries are responsive to the needs of their people.
been thinking that before, we can also use wind power, to power the water pumps that we can use for irrigation...
Invest more in Science Research, Development, and Technology.
the idea is good, but making it happen is the best for everyone....
We should retool to adapt!
Scarcity stimulates creativity to produce food for survival, and lack of manpower and resources pushed them to find ways to be efficient
Sir Manny, if your problems are these eco n fin managers including the budget people, allocate a budget from your department to build a pilot project of this nature in the proposed federal states as a demonstration of how to make dry areas productive. I believe there are openminded governors or mayors who you can convince of this concept.
They use drip watering system  no wastage
Sec. Pinol we are counting your support to the COCO Farmers!
Dear #Mannypiñol Solar power irrigation is really very important to us especially the farmers but some farmers is appreciated. But doesn't means is already solved the problems of our farmers,before you decides of it another debt of our Gov't,the solar panel that very much costly, why you did not think of the possible ways. Like Rectification of tarification, and Raise of price of Rice from farmers,  farm to market road.and other subsidies,
I tried it na water when it is hot...and effective naman healthy yung pananim. It is a matter of embracing new ideas rather than complaining and blaming....
Waldas waldas lng ang peg natin dito sa pinas  Happy to be wrong
Someday the desert will bloom
Sir Pinol, why not asking for help in the Chinese govt. Maybe they can provide us solar panels in cheaper prize. I've seen the   video here the wide dessert area of Xingjiang & inner Mongolia before where covered now with farm lands and they used the solar energy.
they use underground sprinklers. the government should subsidize this.
Because they have efficient irrigation.
Sir support the Mindanaoan farmer, this is very possible if the government intervene and support.
Get the budget we have a lot of resources here. But we also have a lot of corrupt officials, sabihin nyo sir millions of pesos makukuha nila as their share sa project, kinabukasan approve na budget mo sir, hindi lang sa dream.
This is really possible thru govt project of irrigation..if they will really do...if only thru farmer by themselves its very hard...i admit that somebody could do...but mostly cannot..big issue or problem is water source of the area...then the equipment...and the cost...its a huge investment to a poor farmer...hope we can make solution mr. Secretary...i knew only govt can provide for the poor...
There's money to be made in digging irrigation canals... without a water source
Our  only power is prayer  to our Leadership  and  to its surrounding political  arena.. God  is in control  if  we  pray earnestlt  not  nurmuring.. Remember exodus .. Hope  its a  reminder  to us. Devil is trying to   sow confusion ..
That's a very nice technique we must adopt, I go for that, sir Manny, but I hope you could also solve the problems of our farmers, the very very low prices of all agricultural product, pls stop importations, from other countries unless we run out of supplies...
Most agricultural lands are slowly converted to residential lots or worse still turned into subdivisions. Beides, the then Pres Marcos, build dams and irrigation but to be abandoned for lack of maintenance.
To make food affordable  and sustainable the Government should sincerely utilize our potential resources by providing sufficient fund to Agri Sector. 75 billion  for rehabilitaion ng manila bay  kinaya ang Solar irrigation na 44 billion wala
Manny your an inspiration to the farmers and the people, but the Goliath in govt. is the brainless politicians that should be replaced by engineers,technologist,scientist and doctors.
I hail you with the utmost respect Sec Manny!!! 👊👍🇵🇭
They made a way to solve problems ,not blaming and complaining," progressive thinkers and blessed nation".
Let's do the solar powered irrigation but let's minimize corruption pwede ba!
Sir, try venturing on aquaponics technology, water consumption is reducrd to almost 50%.
Sec. paano pagmakulimlim???? Hahahah bobo!!!  God Bless the Philippine Agriculture. Yes we can!!!!!
Hijo, do be circumspect with your words here. Be respectful and be a good model to the young.
Romel Susada hahahahaaa...  i remember who said that.. lol
I think the better question should be: How can we help?
Sir Manny, we are group of farmers. Our concept is integrated farming system combine with the organic system. Try to invite us and we share our experiences to other farmers. This is the surest we to combat poverty in the Philippines.
Government should support d farmers. Fertilizer, pesticides are very high price.
Also Sir in Saudi Arabia everyday no rain but still good crops
Frauline Telebangco Cuizon Duja  tama!
Simon Peter Paul thanks Sir.. sana gumising na sila
D Best  Agriculture Sec  the  Philippines  ever  have Sec Piñol
I was been work In Israel in Agrostudies (on job-training) , Its true,  and Its in prophecised in the Holy Bible that God trully Bless the Nation of Israel overflow and abundantly. Israeli's is really blessful with Brains. And the Government is giving farm technologies to the Farmers, and they are focus to the Agricultural sector for their economically, This is the result of without corruption.   And Israeli Peoples is Honesty, not lazy, they are mandatory to work on time. Tov meod.
Correct po air MannyPiñol
We can do this!
so have a people to study what to do.. reasearcher!!
tubular water spray irrigation .
drip irrigation.
May irrigation kc sila sir
Sec. Piñol is CORRECT.
Best sec.ka tlg sir manny
Good job D-TECH
Very well said al jhun
Don't just be amazed... get their secret...
Promise land
Don't just be amazed... get their secret...
Promise land
Amazing!
Amazing!
Sec. Manny Piñol, kudos! You’re one of the most productive Government officials! 👍
Cge sir push nyo po produkto natin
Nata de Coco was  a very good product concocted by Filipinos and was massively popular in Japan to the point that NataEqualPhilgoodness. So popular, NHK did a docu. And there was hitch: the backyard cottage industry's workplaces were dingy, unsanitary, fly-infested, blah, blah. Environmental and handling qualities were just too poor and unacceptable to the Japanese. And so slowly the Japanese niche disappeared, the industry stagnated.. And Thailand replaced us, never to lose grip of it again to this day.
Good Job Sec MannyPiñol...you are the very first DA Secretary with unique & potent Add on Portfolio: Cum “A” Grade Investment & Product Promotion Secretary...u are the perfect embodiment of a DA Secretary that direly fits to the Phil Agriculture Narrative Of the NOW...its time for DA to create a position based on your personal template...Keep it up...Gbu more...
Congrats to our DA SECRETARY.  The next challenge for his sub-alterns, undersecretaries and regional heads, is to identify the problems inherently stopping the farmers from exporting. ONce you have discovered the disconnects, and developed solutions, exports would boom. For now, it is too difficult for the small farmers to do. Perhaps the big multinationals will respond to this, capable and empowered they are for many years. But then, sila lang.
Philippine Government through PCA should invest in massive R&D so we could discover more products out of our coconut. A well known Coco based corporation tapped a Chinese university to make R&D on coconut products. Presto! That Chinese University came up with 500 usage of coconut. Out from the 500 discoveries, that Filipino company utilized just 50 of those discoveries. And now, that Filipino Coco based corporation is dominating the Coco industry. (Sources: People from the Bureau of Investments).
Alberto Baylon maybe the government can tap DOST to do more research on coco so that government can have more options to push based on research findings....
Aedan Licos Government should form an agriculture cluster so DA, DAR, DOST, DENR and DTI will have a synchronized program.
Salute sir good job
Sec Pinol, one very important input in the growing of coconut trees is salt. Saltmaking or salt production industry must be under DA because saltbeds are used in growing fish during the rainy season. Each coco tree needs about 4kg of salt every year to stay healthy and bear more fruits. Salt is used in livestock and poultry feeds.   Besides DOST which provides some R&D assistance, no government agency is really in charge of “salt”.   Just imagine the livelihood opportunities we can generate from saltmaking
Saludo to Sec Emmanuel Pinol and Amb King Sorreta!  Two indefatigable and super hard working officials of our government!  May you be emulated by the rest...
Thank you Lord.
It’s good for our farmers
Soc Piñol, I think the DA should also embark on massive promotion of coco and other products!
Clarita Carlos Yes, Mam. We should. Borrowing the statement of Manny Pangilinan regarding the strategy of PLDT, “innovate or die”. Government should find ways, make innovations in our coconut industry. Find more lucrative products out from our coconut. If not, we will just cut off our coconuts and replace it with other crops that can bring better income to our farmers.
💯💯💯✔✔✔
Sir manny market nyu din po ang mga ibang products ng coconut hindi lang oil at water merun po tayung coco sugar, dried coconut, coconut vinegar and alcoholic drinks, granulated, handicrafts, coco peat and coir at mga banana chips
yes. they actually like our lambanog and rum.
MannyPiñol tuba sir!!! Haha
MannyPiñol Sir met na Roy Abaya, and Sir Antonio Gerondo, will offer cold storage facilities and market linkage
Copy thanks.
You’re doing a great job Sir Manny. The only DA that works. Pahinga din paminsan minsan Sir.
Aqua coco 😍😍😍😍
Eastern europe here we come!  Kudos sec pinol!
Food production is so important. As a UN study once concluded that if production doesn't double by the year 2050, the world may not have enough to eat!
Alain R. Alafriz true kaya swerte din talaga ang mga farmers, may mga farm at yung mga masisipag magtanim ng sarili nilang makakain.. :)
Then this will be better for the farmers because it will raise the price of agri products..hooray for the law of supply and demand..
Good Job!!... GOOD LUCK to all if you!
Great job.
Because. Of Putin the great
That's a good start, yet more has to be done particularly to those farmers who are located in the remote areas that have suffered so much from the slump of agricultural prices, I hope soft loans and technical assistance will finally reach them. Agriculture should be the foremost priority of the government as lack of food is the reason for the woes of the Filipinos.
Produce harvesters and rice planters as well...this is an amazing future for phil. Farmers
excellent move sec salamat
Daghan kaayong salamat Sec. MannyPiñol! Mabuhay po kayo for helping us small time coconut farmers!  God bless you more...  ☝☝👍👍
Thank you for working hard for us farmers Sir. God bless you always.
👏👏👏
👏👏👏👏
Vilma Lidasan Mamalac parang product nyo ata ung coconut😀
good news
Right
Wow na wow!!!
Good news!!!
Wow sec. Tudohi pa!
Very good!
keep up the good work!
you're really a hardworking secretary...i salute you Sir.
Yan ang sinasabi ko. Better train our local engineers To assemble farm implements. We have inventors in the  Philippines. Give incentives by launching a contest in coming up with innovative ideas.
Include mechanical attachments and working with local fabricators - 🤑
Salute!! To the hardworking, sincere, knowledegable public servant. God bless and more power sir
that is nice..Kudos mr. Secretary hope they make small farm equiptment for us..
put one assembly plant in timpas panitan capiz we show to judy and marimar we have something different for capiz.sec pinol the mrrd necc capiz agro industrial coop salute you of your administration and prrd
This is a good prospect. If Belarus will establish an assembly plant, at least the parts that will come into the country will not be taxed high as compared when the equipment is fully assembled. It will generate employment, and some of the parts can be manufactured locally, which may generate more businesses.
JulCes Tajale correct talaga, tires for tractors like these can be made by the newly formed tire company featured recently, for example
Good job sir... God sent u for the PHILIPPINE people..!  Magkano kaya mga price nyan sir nawa mapublish ang prices nyan.. pra sa ganun d maover pricing ng mga 2 hand distributor..pls ty
Emerson De Jesus For example, the Belarus 921 model midsize tractor 4x4 awd model bare 102HP with cabin pumapalo ng 800K it comes with a high capacity 5 cyl turbocharged diesel engine which has options ng #yamz {russian engine}, #MMZD245 {belarusian engine maker and standard } at isuzu and fuso turbocharged diesel engines in its options, smaller 50 to 99hp and below tractor like the ones pareho. Laki ng kubota garden tractors na models nila ngayon nila play around 200k to 900k php without implements.. Check mo ang mga belarusian based delaers sa internet so you can have an idea of their prices as bare units halos 1/4th to 3 fifth mas mura ang presyo nila keysa mga brands na umiikot sa local market sa pinas of course mamahal yan kaunti coz of taxes
Mijur Juris bro my stock n b sa pinas bro.. salamat sa info
Mijur Juris thank u for good info bro... Hntyin na lng yan mukhang mas dekalidad yan keza sa china kubota
Comrade Jurisprudence 😎😎
Julito Yranela  dont mind the model BELARUS-5022 na unit.. Tingnan mo ang iba dyan! Ying Belarus-421 nilang model ang tingnan mo.. Pang haciendero yang 5022 model nila natural.. Saka di lang yan limited sa farm use! Those tractors have a dual purpose function at kaya gawing industrial tractors
Sec. Manny, Congratulations, good job. Let's not waste time to welcome this company and ask DTI to organize a  Team to facilitate the issuance of necessary permits and licenses.
Wow, hope the price will be affordable sa kgaya naming mga small time ofw/farmers..
Good job sir Sec. Manny Piñol
I remember one time..nag invite si sec pinolwhenbhe was still governor of cotabato ng mga investor na Korean( if I'm not mistaken)..na maglagay ng assembly plant ng sprayer, mini tractors, or farm equipment and was displayed at kidapawan city gym...ngayon may in invite na nmn cya..good work Mr.secretary..if ma set up yan..another work opportunity yan sa mga kababayan natin...
Wow! If Papa is still alive he would be visiting the plant in PH. I still have his pics in one of these giants!
Ty for your hardwork sec. Piñol
Imagine what would happen if the factory making motorcycle tires gets to be the exclusive tire supplier for all this company's tractor units assembled in the philippines 😎
Farm mechanization is a big help to our local farmers that will ensure productivity.
Welcome to the philippines
Basta matibay at quality Invest  tau.. baka for  the  sake of  equiping the  Phils  farmer with that important  machine   and  at the  end maintenance is the problem  kasi  quality  wise  d  tmtagal . hope it worthty to  invest
Jeffrey Fuentes the #MTZBelarus ngayon ay gumagamit ng mga outsourced na parts from leading suppliers sa buong mundo like zf, sachs, etc , yung mga tractors na yan ay may 3 years na vehicle at service warranty at may aftersales guarantee pa
nice one Sec Pinol!
Maganda drying plant per region na producer ng palay and it should be free.. NFA will buy palay dry then sell.
That’s good news!
this is it! help the farmers!!!!
Wow....d best sir pinol
Good job sec. Pinol
congrats sir
👍👍
Wow!!!
Astig
Hi Sir MannyPiñol please ask the President and his economic team to recommend to Congress to open up the economy and remove the 60/40 ownership limits in our constitution so more FDI can come in the country and invest in our agriculture sector... Kindly check the CoRRECT Movement and I hope you can talk with Mr Orion Perez D about this advocacy. THANKS AND MORE POWER... Federal Parliament FDI People's Draft ABOLISH 60/40: LIBERATE PHILIPPINE ECONOMY, MARKET FRIENDLY PHILIPPINES
Gabriel Lim kahit reverse lang 40/60 in favor of foreign country company ok na yan
Alvin Abitria agree... We should be competitive. Kahit nga sa southeast asia.. Kulelat tayo... We should follow singapore...
Indonesia still imposes restrictions on ownership. In my perspective, this is necessary in order to protect the interest of local businesses. At 60/40 the foreign company or investors are already taking a sizeable stake in the company. The important thing is in the ease of doing business in the country, which our government is addressing.  Indonesia is managing its finances well, and the government owns many of the important business of the country.
Of all the previous DA secretaries we had you are far more the busiest,most industrious,hands on,most initiative,productive,intelligent,articulate,innovative,honest,helpful, Humble DA secretaries Philipines had.You set the bar high when it comes to accomplishments!Bravo Sec. Piñol iba talaga ang DA secretary na laking bukid!!!Best fit with your job...
As you promote sales, promote too replanting as well as an expanded R&D.
...you are not only a good Agriculture secretary but also a good Salesperson. More power to you Sec. Piñol👍👌👊🇵🇭
Include coco jam spread as another product to promote, as well as the bukayo candies (grated coconut cooked in molasses)
Manuel Caramancion :  Pinoy pastries improved with 60% less sugar...mero malinamnam parin.
Very good job Sir MannyPiñol. We are a tropical country and we are blessed to have deep rooted plants like fruit trees and other perennial fruits. Fruit plants agriculture has highest Value of Production per hectare per year.. Good for drought situations. Total national agric Value of Production will increase. Good marketing.
God bless you sir!!! Coconut is such a very useful product. I have been using it ever since. Just last night, I used fresh coconut milk for my hair and scalp treatment since shampoo is not that effective. I also used the grated coconut for whole body scrub as it makes my skin soft and smooth.
Nalyn P. Cañones coconut foot spa po dito Dublin is €60 try nyo rin po. Para mas maganda at effective soak mo muna ang paa mo with fresh pounded papaya leaves juice or yong young papaya leaves kahit hindi na pounded e massage mo sa paa. then after around 10mins massage mo ang grated coconut. meron nga kasabihan na ang mga mayayaman dito sa europe ay mas mahal pa ang shampoo nila sourced from organic plants kaysa isang buong araw na budget na pagkain sa mga 3rd world country po. as in all organic plant based diet ang mga mayayaman dito. meron na rin growing interest sa mga edible flowers like roses for food
Great start again sir manny  GOD BLESS YOU AND MAY YOU achieve your vision for the farmers sir. Please people before you complain again and blame sir manny and bash him Do your part first in electing right congresman and senators  Because sir manny cant do it alone he Have limited power and plus the budget  So pls vote and campaign for people you think will support bills programs and budget that this administration is pushing Otherwise the progress will be slow because of selfish politicians who think of their pocket and interests first before the people
amen!
MannyPiñol Sec Manny, pwede po bang pakipropose mo po sa POEA at DFA at Immigration office na gawing mga ambassadors of Philippines products ang ating OFWs by giving them proper training about our country and our crops or products and why they will be proud Pilipinos bago po umalis ng bansa po.  We have premium services and products po. On this way, mababawasan po ng malaki ang pagka colonial mentality nating mga Pinoy po at upang tangkilikin natin ang mga lokal na products po.
Go go go lng Sec. Piñol. As an ordinary Filipino citizen, I have nothing to offer but trust unto your leadership in Agri Sector.
Here in Canada..we can buy organic coconut water made in Philippines
You're doing great Sec. Manny Pinol... But we have to plant more coconuts to achieve this... Hope that the organization of oil millers and coconut planters would spend more time in coconut production..
Obiwan Rei Salamanes modernization ng farming,manufacturing at production kailangan dyan.
Congrats Sec Emmanuel Pinol... @ that Level in tgr global stage...u are now a consumate Storyteller...” If u cannot tell it, u cannot sell it...” stories have a unique Power to move people’s hearts...purposeful storytelling is s game-chahger ...it can be built in 3 steps;  1. Grab ur listener’s attention w/ a question or unexpected challenge. 2. Give ur listeners an emotional experience by telling a story around the struggle that will ultimately lead to conquering the challenge... 3. Galvanizw the listeners with a call to action...  You did the 3 Sec Manny...they won’t stay engaged if they are not excited by the struggle in the Middle...its called Dramatic Arc leading to call to action...  What successful Business Pitch... Congrats l
Good one on this, sec Manny Piñol   The end of the value chain is as good as its beginning.  Theres a 360 program that can make this effort sustainable. The strategy for  export using a b2b model is in good place but please remember to back up the value chain.   Theres no doubt if the country can grow or the people product, not even the question of if the product is good.   The question and risk we'll face would be capacity, capability and consistency in terms of production (FMR,Produce-Process, product dev, product packaging and of course logistics)   Also, theres an urgent matter on hand pa on the ground in terms of farmer sustainability in terms of pricing.   Lastly, the mindset. You have to listen to the farmers. Without them, everything is is just smoke and mirrors. Baka Masisira pa ang pangalan ng pinoy farmers at Pilipinas bilang agri fledgling.   If you have the time, kape tayo. We can show you an alternative model.   Salamat po sa serbisyo.
Sec. MannyPinol... Most of coconut products like Buko water, coconut milk, etc . that are sold in supermarkets & Asian groceries are from Thailand, etc. just a few are from the Philippines - w/c sadly are inferior in quality compared to others. I wonder why when coconut is abundantly grown in the Philippines...  I hope you could address those problems, too.  Kudos to all your hard work & dedication... God speed & God bless you, secretary Manny Pinol.
Calling all filipino....please buy / use coconut cooking oil to help our coco farmers.
Eto pa ang pinaniniwalaan kong solusyon kesa sa Belga Agro Festival na yan! Gang promotion  lang yan; pupusta ako walang maitutulong yan sa mga magniniyog na Pinoy!
Thank you MannyPiñol  for your effort to promote and sell coconut product in the international market. We appreciate your effort and vision to help the poor Filipino coconut farmers.
Yan ang man of action puro gawa hindi dada. 🖒sir manny piñol. Keep it up good work!
Congrats Manny Pinol,we pray for the success of this venture.
Good news! Good luck and God  bless Philippines!!!
Salamat kaau sir Manny  God bless Philippines-
Rolly Flores there are new techs to preserve the freshness of these products
reefer vans.
Thanks Mr. Sec.
Sir,you should reqlly challenge dti and universities in the country to come up wih coconut based  products.
Sir manny,,, salamat s imohang effort to promote more on coconut benefits to other countries.... This is a big help on us as a coconut farmer...its time to explore more by products of a coconut.... Apil na ang tuba sir.. Big tnx s imohang team sir....
That’s the way to go! Market the coconuts and it’s by product! Kudos DA SEC Pinol!
Even hes not perfect hes a good sec than before..
Praying for you and your group's success! Thank you for your continous work in helping our farmers, boost economic prospects, and gain future revenues.
Diverse the use of coconut sir...
Is there any research about fish meal processing sir,using our coconut...
More power to you Secretary Piñol. God bless you and the whole PRRD team. We know you are trying your best to answer all possible needs for the farmers though not all will be resolved instantly.
Wish you all the best!! Sir Manny
This is a good start sir.. We are good producer.. WE LACK MARKETING..
Coco sap sugar for diabetics need to be promoted as well.
Lots of my friends love Guava Jelly.
Go go go Sir.. New Market for our Product means progress.. keep well Sir and Stay Healthy.
also sir, my mother use coconut oil for back massage us when we are young and now her grandaughter after bath for the reason that it will lessen the incidence of cough/colds.. and she said that it is effective..
export buko juice to middle east to help farmers..mabuti pa yung thailand daming agri products nila in other countries,buko,mangoes at iba pa...
Good job,just work forward and the result leave it to GOD!!!!
no better idea to promote our own!
im so excited for our dear farmers! 😍go pilipinas!
I love the real salesmanship of Sec. Penol. We keep on praying for you for leading the agricultural sector of our nation. Vibrant Food industry...
Doing a yeoman's job Sec. Kudos to you n Team Phil!
More power sir hope it works out for the next few days.
God bless you sir.God knows your heart how you wanted to help your fellow Filipino.Thank you for striving for us farmers.
Wow wll pray 4 u sir good luck po..
Gogogo sir Manny Pinol...more power!!!God bless
Mct oil is ❤
More power sir🙏💪👊💖
Good job Sec Manny!
I'll go for coconut oil to use for cooking, it's healthy
Agricultural revolution!
Good move Sec Manny
good job Sec Manny.
Job well done po sir 👏👏👏
congrats sir
👏👏👏
so good sir MannyPiñol
This is it!
Good news
Right
Very good
Kudos po!!!
Great..
Form a cooperative so we will have a stronger voice in the market..
Maybe you could also concentrate on making Philippine mango affordable for people living in the Philippines. Additional exports will just drive higher prices here.
Neil Foster farming and logistics are the keys to make mangoes more affordable po. Free pa hehe
Hopefully they reach to shipment here in Canada we miss our manga cebu
MannyPiñol Great sir. Wag lang sana malimit ang choice sa Guimaras mangoes. The most important thing is brix level and not island origin.
Victor Chico those are the given constraints sir. And to this we are at a big disadvantage. Promotion is really the key and sustaining its presence in the market. Its a tall order but I think its doable. My point is that I hope its not only Guimaras mangoes are considered. Dami naman na comparable varieties. Besides, Russia only benchmarked protocola from mainland US kaya Guimaras ang hinahanap.
MannyPiñol Sec Manny, blessed day po.  Some recommendations po as per actual experience of western market. We need to create or design the system that works for the whole country po. We can easily beat the world market po by 1. Declare Phil Agriculture towards organic farming until 2024 - maximize the use of farm and market wastes to create our own fertilizers; accomplish 20% annually. On this way, we can save water consumptions, regulate production, and develop sustainable market 1st local then global.  2. Establish Agri hub - offer simple investment to our OFWs - we can present details; 3. Logistics - 7,107 islands need logistics. 4. OFWs will always be the Ph Ambassadors of agri crops because they invest on it; 5. Campaign on BUY LOCAL PRODUCE. Label local and imported goods. Agri industry is always a winner. Thank you po sa lahat nang pagsisikap mo at ng buong Kagawaran ng Pagsasaka na mareporma at maiangat ang ating ekonomiya. Send our products abroad and bring back more consumers thru farm tourism are the keys towards economic recovery po.
Yah same here in UAE Sec MannyPiñol, naay mga mangoes dri from Pakistan, India, Thailand and Africa walay lasa ug walay humot na same sa atoang mango. And the worst is it’s so expensive and not worth it imong gibayad kay di ka masatisfy not like our very own Phil. Mangoes na sa baho palang mabusog naka. Hope mag export sad mo dri sa UAE Sec. Kay kmi naa dri cge me pangita ug ga hope mi na naay masaag na mangga sa mga supermarket dri. Hope soon Inshaallah.  God Bless Philippines and God Bless our Government 👊🏻 🇵🇭
Mangoes here in Qatar is weighted, I prefer buying our own mangoes even though much expensive than thai mangoes, ika nga Buy Philippine made products 🇵🇭
The hands on DA secretary...you really are doing great things... Pagpalain nawa kayo ng Dios..
Our mangoes in Kidapawan North Cotabato is very sweet& good quality. We need help to have good export market  para makabawi sa pagpatanom ani. A lot had been cut down because of very discouraging price. I hope with the help of DA sec Pinol makabawi kmi. More power Dept of Agriculture
Guimaras is the title holder of Guinness world of record the sweetest mango in the world.
Officially yes hindi naman kasi nag pa register ang Super Galila sa Guiness Book. pero mas mataas ang sweetness level ng Guimaras Super Galila which is 24 Brix ang Sweet Elena ng Zambales only 22 Brix.
There's a world record for a lot of things but it doesn't necessarily mean it's the one that the market would want.  Just as an example, with mangoes, it's not really just about sweetness, there are other flavors that appeal to consumers including the slight tart flavor.  I haven't tasted sweet Elena but I've been told it indeed does have a slight tartiness that I find appealing.
F Charito Imperial-Sebastian I checked Guinness. There’s no record. If you know the edition please let me know. I want a copy of it to show my children. Thank you!
SO True nothing can match a Philippine Mango especially Guimaras. The problem it's very limited.
Yes, we also have thai mangoes in Singapore. They only look bigger but ours is still sweeter by a long shot.
Mark Garcia yep. Lasang gamot pa. No mango can beat ours.
What is important now Sec. Piñol to help the farmers raise the buying price of Palay!!!
Chandra Ortaliz Cacho  guimaras i tbink is a record holder for world(s sweetest mango.. Sorry i cannot give link too lazy hehehe
sir manny this is a good problem... we have the main  product we just need to upgrades our facility until we can export... and sana ung kitaan makarating hangang sa mga farmers... like what is happening in coconut farmers now...
Wow thats good news to all mango farmers!!
More exports for Philippines.Time to review the Guimaras mango variety for its improvement and adaptability in other suitable areas in Philippines for more plantations and source of livelihoods for local citizens.
It depends on the soil,kaya iba talaga ang taste ng mango ng Guimaras.
I had a conversation before with a german importer of mango to their country. they had to buy mangoes and coconuts from asia. The taste of the fruits transported through plane is a lot better than those through ship. But they cost a lot too.
We need to plant more Mr. Secretary! Seedlings of the Guimaras variety is scarce here in Ilocos Norte..
Seedlings walang problema.. ang dahilan bakit masarap ung manga dito sa amin e ung lupa...
Pauline Wooldridge word!!
GUIMARAS mangoes...THE BEST!!!!
GOD bless you sir manny. GOD bless Philippines.
Please export mangoes to Canada too Mr. MannyPiñol. Mangoes available here are nothing compared sa Philippine mangoes!😁 please po🙏🏼
NZ needs 🇵🇭 Mangoes please 🙏
These mangoes in the photos are not sweet. There are some of these here in Kuwait stores, not sweet. Our Philippines mangoes are 50% sweeter. That's why im longing for our mangoes.
Kepp it up, Sec. Manny Pinol and Department of Agriculture. God bless always!!!
Philippine  mangoes are the best in the world, esp mention to Guimaras mangoes.  In Canada,  a piece of Philippine  mango costs CAD20,00.
Keep it up Sec #MannyPiñol.
Guimaras is indeed the sweetest mango in the universe.hehehe
yeeey!... good job sir secretary Manny Piñol.
My Russian friend thought that Philippines does not have any mango. He was surprised that I brought him dried mangoes from Cebu.
Love to hear it! Russia is a big market.
Guimaras mango variety is the best in the world
Nothing beats Carabao mangoes grown in Phils.
we will be exporting to EASTERN EUROPE and not US and retail price costs $19.00 per piece =)
bring Philippine Mango here to Canada Sec. Manny.. hope it will be soon...
OUR MANGO IS THE BEST !!! Pls export more...👍🏼👍🏼👍🏼
proud Guimarasnon here!!!! nothing can match the sweetness of Phillippine Mangoes especially in our Province (Guimaras). Come and visit Guimaras island and enjoy our Manggahan FESTIVAL on May 11-22, 2019!
I hope the farmers of guimara mango are benefiting by 50%of the price ...imagine 1000pesos just one mango...!
Well done Secretary Piñol! 🙌🏼👍🏻👍🏻👍🏻👏🏻
kudos sec piñol👊👊👊 mabuhay kyo!!!
Philippine fruits being sold in the former Iron Curtain!!!
Wow proud guimarasnon here!
I am so proud of our Philippine mangos! Kahit mahal sa UAE or US binibili ko whenever I see one coz nothing compares to its sweetness and texture!!! Amoy pa lang alam na!!!
Thank you Mr. Sec Manny sir! Mabuhay po kayo
wowww, nakakaproud naman...More power to DA and Phil. mango growers.
I am optimistically hopeful that something beneficial for our farmers will come out of this trip.....more power to you Sec!
Bring it yo Ireland please !!!
good governance .... it will succeed
I love to hear it. Kudos to you for the great job!!
Before..Agriculture is family-food..And Now Agriculture is both food & pocket...THATS THE MODERN CONCEPT of Agriculture..AFMA R.A 8435 lets be proud of being Filipino Agriculturist its the summation of all branches ❤🙏
Sir manny pang world class gyud!!
Yes please, Sec. Piñol. I hope also in W. Europe. We have been enduring these mangoes from india that taste like medcine and apple mango. Not like the milky buttery sweet taste of our own Filipino mangoes that you don't need to add milk when making a mango milkshake. Kudos to you Sec. Piñol.
I love  mango from Cebu so sweet
Jett Pogoy time for export/import business haha
Thumbs po Sir.👍
Just keep up the good work Sir Secretary!
GOOD MOVE SEC..PINOL, LOOKING FOR MARKETS FOR OUR HOME GROWN ORCHARD PRODUCTS...A SINCERE PUBLIC SERVANT...LESS TALK MORE ACTIONS!!!
this is what we have just discussed last night😂Omar Damaso Marcing Dayunyur
Nadine Damaso mag import na tau dito sa UAE hehehe
hello tukayo manny.We organzed and rgistred our group the UNITED  MINDANAO MANGO GROWERS  ASS (UMMAGA)INC.and having our IST  MINDANAO MANGO SUMMIT  last march 20-22.@ dakak dapitan city. the event was attended by repesentativr of UNITED LUZON AND VISAYAS MANGO  GRWERS .THIS IS A BIG BOOST TO OUR INDUSTRY. THIS WILL BE DISCUSS ON THE SCHED STRATEGIC PLAN HOW WE CAN ATTAIN OUR DREAMS FOR MANGO GROWRS IN MINDANAO.THANK U FOR THIS OPPORTUNITY. MANNY B. VP/ UMMAGA INC. MIDC R12.
Good job Sir Manny... ;)
basta c gov. kuguihan kau👍👍👍
Good Job Sir Manny ;)
may pera sa high value commercial crops
That's great sir Manny
wowww, nakakaproud naman...More power to DA and Phil. mango growers.
👏👏👏👏👏
Wow super
Wow
Wow!!!
good job sir
Jarl Kerome bb hahaha $20/pc
Ennie Estrada Logarta yeah
1k each wow
Wow good job
Clay Torres ... Sa lahat po na gusto makatanim ng Mangoming sa kanilang mga bakuran ay gusto kong ipaabot na masaya akong makapagshare sa inyo ng Mangoming scions pagdugtong sa inyong rootstocks kung gusto nyo mag grafting. Kaya lang limited po ang scions available from my 5 fruit-bearing Mangoming trees, dahil wala po akong mango plantation.  Hindi ko po kayo mapagbigyan ng sabay sabay.   My Batch 6 of Free Mangoming Scions distribution in 2019 is already fully committed to 800 persons who requested since February to July 2018.  Ayoko pong magpromise na hindi ko matutupad.  However, kung ipahintulot ng Panginoon at buhay pa ako at nandyan pa mga Mangoming trees ko, ay itutuloy ko ang Batch 7 in 2020.  IF YOU are willing to wait that long, I would be glad to include you in my new list.   Just PM your recipient's complete name, address and contact number as required by LBC.  Note: Due to FB 5,000 Friends limit, I could no longer add future Free Mangoming scions recipients as "Friends". Therefore, so that you can still be aware and updated of related news, please click "Like" to follow my Page: Mangoming Highlights by Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan.  You can comment or ask question on my posts on this Page or you may chat thru Messenger.
Jerry Botial ... Flowering pa po ngayon.
Bibili nalang kami ng para itanim sa gnyang klaseng mangga maam
Abdullah Cuenca ... ... Hindi po ako negosyante na nagbebenta ng seedling.  Wala po akong kakayahan, expertise and resources para dyan, ayokong pagkakitaan ang Mangoming.  Umasa ako na ang DA ang tumulong para sa pagpropagate ng marami pero sabi ni sir Manny hindi pala responsibility ng DA yan. Kaya itulutuloy ko na lang ang ginawa ko since 2016 na pamimigay ng Mangoming Scions na LIBRE sa kung sino gusto mag graft for family consumption and sharing to others.  Hence, I created my Page:  Mangoming Highlights by Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan   to showcase Mangoming's story for the information of all interested mango-lovers.
Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan  ako maam..
Jhec Gonzales ...Sa lahat po na gusto makatanim ng Mangoming sa kanilang mga bakuran ay gusto kong ipaabot na masaya akong makapagshare sa inyo ng Mangoming scions pagdugtong sa inyong rootstocks kung gusto nyo mag grafting. Kaya lang limited po ang scions available from my 5 fruit-bearing Mangoming trees, dahil wala po akong mango plantation.  Hindi ko po kayo mapagbigyan ng sabay sabay.   My Batch 6 of Free Mangoming Scions distribution in 2019 is already fully committed to 800 persons who requested since February to July 2018.  Ayoko pong magpromise na hindi ko matutupad.  However, kung ipahintulot ng Panginoon at buhay pa ako at nandyan pa mga Mangoming trees ko, ay itutuloy ko ang Batch 7 in 2020.  IF YOU are willing to wait that long, I would be glad to include you in my new list.   Just PM your recipient's complete name, address and contact number as required by LBC.  Note: Due to FB 5,000 Friends limit, I could no longer add future Free Mangoming scions recipients as "Friends". Therefore, so that you can still be aware and updated of related news, please click "Like" to follow my Page: Mangoming Highlights by Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan.  You can comment or ask question on my posts on this Page or you may chat thru Messenger.
interesado po ako ma'am. Please include me po sa batch 7. Maraming salamat po.
Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan interested ako pwede mo ako isali sa batch 7. Thank u
Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan mam thats true patronize our own product. Will improve business pinoy livelihood.
Kaya nga kinulit ko si sir Manny para sana magising na sila kasi kung ako lang konti lang makabahagi ng Mangoming.  Samantalang kung part ng plans and programs nila na mabudgetan ay all over the Philippines comprising 7,107 islands with 18 regions, 81 provinces, 145 cities, 1,489 municipalities, 42,036 municipal barangays, kahit pa konti-konti and downloading of mother plants na magtrickle sa kanayonan.
Sa totoo lang marami na po request from other countries for Mangoming seeds na hindi ko pinagbigyan because wisdom and guidance by the Holy Spirit whispered that Mangoming is a  "blessing to the Philippines".   By the way Mangoming is derivation from two words, "mango" "mine" or translated "my mango", which to me. means that God entrusted me to be the caretaker of His awesome mango, a wonderful blessing to the Philippines thru the people He touched to help in spreading its offspring throughout the country.
E.C. Soulad ... Here's what he said: "It is not DA which creates the demand for planting materials but the farmers themselves. Gaano po na kadami ang nagpapakita ng interes para magkaroon ng ganyang pananim? We don't just promote the propagation of a new variety based on the say-so of one person. Maraming beses nang nasunog ang DA sa mga unproven varieties. Kung talagang masarap yan, farmers mismo ang maghahanap and when that happens we come in to support."
Sir.. The farmers will REMEMBER YOU FOREVER.. as the agriculture Secretary who helped them. By increasing their product's price..  By giving attention to Agricultural Marketing instead of focusing solely on Agricultural production..  GODSPEED.. GOODLUCK.. GODBLESS you sir Manny Pinol.
Jigs Dolores Ignacio you're right, Guimaras, and Zambales
Jigs Dolores Ignacio  try mangoming of ma. Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan in Iligan! Certified. Registered. About 2-3.5 kilos per fruit.
Yes its true philippine mangoes is tastier than any other kind of mango.
THANK YOU SEC... GO AHEAD, PUSH OUR MANGO'S FOR EXPORT PARA KUMITA NAMAN MGA LOCAL SELLERS NATIN.
Gud news sir marami mangoe plantation here in mindoro and i own one
Nothing compares to sweet elena variety from zambales @ Nhida Malabed
Star E Bayto Correct..try sweet elena mango located at Sta cruzZambales
While we export great Philippine mangoes we are left with shitty ones to eat if people could afford it. We keep on exporting and making the oligarchic landlords wealthier. Please make a way for the common filipinos to have better access to quality and inexpensive fruits. In that way filipino consumers and farmers will have more quality of life.
Philippine native mango still the best Sir!Here in Vienna you can buy ripe Thai mangoes 5€/pc.In Exotic market they are selling ripe mangoes too from Pakistan or Egypt but small.It's so sweet...costs 5 €/ kg!Bihira po may Phil mango dito sa Austria.Maubos agad kasi mas gusto nila.
@MannyPinol I was able to talk to a diplomat from the Philippine Consulate in Saudi Arabia recently. He mentioned in passing that Philippine mangoes are high in demand in the Middle East. Unfortunately the technology to ship the fruits to the Middle East with spoilage doesn't exist (or does it?).The opportunity is there. It is up to the country to figure out how to export mangoes to the Middle East without it getting overripe.
Yes. sir Sec. Manny Pinol bravo.!..tapping eastern europe of our products is in deed a very nice move.. congratulation for job...Sir we would like also suggest that the coco levy fund be used jn putting up 3 multi coco processing plant w/ product of vco, cocowater, coconet, cocofluor, activated carbon, cocoboard and cocosugar.. with a capital outlay of 1billion per plant ut would cost only 42 billion out i of 70+billion of cocolevy fund.. it will be a life long help for cocofarmers a job opportunity for factory workers and country dollar earner a next phil. product to be send to eastern europe nx time...
Sir, Irrigation O patubig, Result Sweet Mangoes + Rice pa more.. and Manny..Manny Action pa More...God Bless You..Sir..
Dominate!...Ataulfo from south America, the dominatrix. And Thai mangoes from Thailand. Maybe sell those mango to Easter Europe...your new friends.
Hard working man 😊
Great Boss
Thank you poo sec!!!!
sarap bhay
sarap bhay
Thank you Sir. pls include also Zambales mango. God bless you.
Wow sarap
Go Sec. Piñol unlike un mga previous DA sec. puro paper works lng ang alam. Saludo po kmi.
Sir Manny I'm so proud of what you've done..my partner is Russian and I was proudly telling him about exporting our mangoes and products to Russia. It will be nice if we can taste Filipino mango here in Australia too..bless you po and keep up the great work.
Jhannie Kare bakit nga ganun. Ang sarap ng mangga dito.
True,kahit minsan hindi ko pinag interesan mango from India or Thailand matamis pa rin at mabango mango galing Pinas
Guimaras mango at it best ever...
Hahahahaha aslum, Secretary Manny Pinol. Sir Bong Pinol
Zambales mango , one of d best
Belinda Gonzales Caypuno Agreed!
Agree
Idol ko si Sir. Sobrang sipag. I will always pray for you.
Our mangoes are the sweetest non GMO mangoes in the world!
God bless po 👊👊
Mango is the best
Punta po kau sa NATIONAL MANGO FESTIVAL matitikman nyo po our own different carabao variety from luzon to mindanao plus u can compare it sa ibat ibang imported variety na mango
Correct ka diyan Secretary  Manny  Piniol agree with you about this issue
WOW TRY MANGOMING MAGUGULAT KA SECRETARY...
Edgardo Herrera ... Thank you sir.   You're one who can vouched for Mangoming para hindi na masabi ni sir Manny na "We don't just promote the propagation of a new variety based on the say-so of one person" Kailangan po pala lahat ng nakatikim mag "say-so" din.
MAS MAGANDA PAG MAY HINOG PADALHAN MO NANG ISA PARA MATIKMAN NIYA, PARA MATAUHAN...
Edgardo Herrera ... Yes po, kapag harvest time na po maybe June to August dahil flowering pa ngayon. May nag-offer sa akin na may-ari ng famous Mango Mania Healthy Dessert CDO, na magplan kami ng Mangoming mango event sa kanyang area sa Robinsons Place Iligan to showcase Mangoming potentials and what her experienced staff could do serving Mangoming flavored desserts.  Sana ma invite ko si DA Secretary at mga local officials namin. Sana by that time marelease na ang pinakahihintay ng marami para may magastos ako sa isang profesional Video coverage.
good luck philippines
I say these as both an exporter and Logistics specialist.  I know how it is.
Bring those in DK too sir.  I know philippine mango will also top here
the mango industry specially here in mindanao can meet the demand of importing to international market. we have favorable weather and with proper training we can produce even during offseason.
Napakasipag mo tlga Sir Manny. Thank you for your hard work for the farmers benefit. It's time for them to have a better and comfortable life.🙏👊❤️
Madam Ponga Garzon please respect everyone's perspective. 👊
Makikita mo ang effort ni sec piñol para sa mga farmers. hndi lang talaga madali ang lahat pero magtatagumpay din sya dahil sa sipag nya.anti government tong si Ponga Garzon kaya ganan mag isip di maka appreciate.
Thank you for your hard work Sir! Filipinos appreciate that very much!
But we should aim to be better than Thai mango😊
Sir ala n b free seedling s da lgu
1k rubles,pwede nayan sa rich people dito.
Thank you sec manny. More power!
Great Job Sec Manny !! Brgds.. lets have coffee one of these days👍👍👍
Send some to Canada too!
Yes!!! Nothing compares to Philippine mangoes!
Manny piñol is working for Philippines
sec MannyPiñol there is also a growing demand of durian in our neighboring countries (China, Singapore, Malaysia, etc.). Their musang king variety is no match to our Golden Puyat variety.
parang carabao mngo yan sir ang lakii.
I would buy it in that amount.... masarap KC AT matamis Manga ng Pinas
I knew that long time ago...😂😂😂
YESSS  !   Thank  you and GOOD LUCK !!!
Mexican mangoes are close but small. Nothing can compare to Philippine mangoes.
The flavor profile of the Philippines mango is unque. Pinol should file for a DNA rights over Philippines mango, and file for a certficate of origin like the French does with its products, e.e. wine, cheese, etc.  Already, the Philippines mango was "smuggled" to Mexico. I think this was sourced from a Mango plantation project in Guam undertaken jointly by a company owned by Gil Puyat Jr. and then Gov Calvo of Guam. The project was scuttled but the mango trees remained in situ and became the root stock of the very popular ataulfo mango.
Thank you for this program...hopefully sir magpo-provide din ang government ng libreng farm machineries to including fuels and etc... as in libre talaga para hindi nah mahirapan ang ating mga farmers...thank you po.
Mabuhay po kayo Sir MannyPiñol,,God bless you..
galing po.....god bless...
good job po,sana marami pang product in the future.i buy coconut vinegar at walmart and central market in Washington state both are made in the Philippines.
Cee Tee i buy banana kechup😁 and mang tomas😁
Good job Sec👍
👏go go go sec manny!
good job sec piñol
Bravo !Sec Manny! The jumpstart of  economic bridge for coco products and the like.Thank you for your unwaivering support and efforts.Mabuhay!God bless.
Bravo Sec!👏🇵🇭
Good job everyone
that is money well spent...yan ang dapat
Good luck po sa mga efforts nyo sec manny.
Mabuhay po kayo Sir Manny Piπol !!!  God bless po ..
Thank you for hardwork Sir Manny Pinol ,God bless you
Good Job Sec. Piñol
Sir Manny thank you for your support for Filipinos. Its time for our Filipino agricultural products to be known  throught the world. Mabuhay ka Sir Manny. Saludo kaming mga pilipino sayo lalong lalo na kaming mga OFW at dating mga OFW.
😘😇 thank you sir sec. Manny
Good  Job Sec. Pinol
Good job po Sec. Manny Piñol!
CONGRATULATIONS!!,,THANK YOU VERY MUCH MR. SECRETARY..THE PHILIPPINES IS WORTHY TO HAVE YOU..
Thank you po Sec. Manny!
God bless po Sec. Pinol 😊 hard work truly pays off
Thank you so much Sir Manny for your hard work, always promoting Phil products to other countries 👍👍
KUDOS !  THANK YOU.  GOOD LUCK !!!
Congratulations and Mabuhay po kayo Sir Manny! You're the DFA secretary that most Filipinos are proud of. God bless po Sir Manny! 👏👊🇵🇭
Good job sec Pinol and Co. 👏👏
👏👏👏
thumbs up
Right
congrats
Thank you
Boss Eugene Palomo mcg..wide opportunity po..💪💪💪
Wisdom, Good Health and God's Grace and Favor be upon you Sir MannyPiñol.
Philippines is indeed lucky to have him as DA Sec. 🙏🙏🙏
yes...you are sir MannyPiñol....
More power and God bless sir
Some people did not see and do not want to see whats in your heart, but we are very thankful you are our DA Secretary..
Hope everybody do the same....were in this together....you are a role model for me....
Go2x sec!
We really need the likes of him in the President's Team of Able and Trusted Men and Women.
Sa sipag at tiyaga I salute you Mr.Pinol... What needs to be strengthened is the political will to fight against vested interest in the official government family... GOOD LUCK AND GOD BLESS PO..♨♨♨
Nowadays you rarely see a government official doing a  job well done. May you encourage others in government to follow your example so that your tribe increase. May the Agriculture sector of our country improve and prosper thru your leadership. God bless us all!
A good deed never dies , it goes on and on and it never tires .....
tikal!!!!!
well written piece of our hardworking secretary.
Brilliant! Mabuhay po kayo Sec.Pinol  God bless
good job po
One of the best & hardworking Cabinet Secretary of PRRD.Salute to your effort and undying love for the Agriculture sector.Sec.Manny GODBLESS!
Thank you Secretary for your kindness to us the family of the coconut farmers
Thank you once again  Our ever hardworking agri secretary  And in between this hectic work sir manny took chance to even reply to comments in his fb page for questions raise by concern farmers and even those who bash him despite his hardwork... So pls people next time you ask why Sir manny is not replying to your repetitive questions and bashing(despite some he already  answered from previous post). Please understnd that he is working hard to catch up for the work neglected for decades. I really wish Pia ptv or pcoo who ever is in charge  should help Da   in information dissemination on his works and why our agri sector was left out and now We are catching up thanks to hardworking da staffs now And headed by our good secretary  Again he Cant Just increase the price of rice copra corn rubber anytime understnd that he dont Have the power to do so  But he is trying his best to stop the greedy traders from their practice  ,  to find other market  to promote the products,  to find alternative etc etc  And again dont forget to vote for congresman and senators who will help make bills and pass laws which will protect agri sector  and   fully support  budget for agri progress and innovation.
Jigs Dolores Ignacio amen Sir.
Right
Stay healthy sir <3
God bless Philippines-  Thanks much sir Manny
Thank you Sir Manny.
Good jod Sir Manny
Thanks for sharing a glimpse of our dear Sec. Pinol’s quest to improve the lives of Filipinos
Just imagine if they tasted our mangoes, and could be imported directly to moscow. That would have been an enourmos value of trade...
Bry Macalma correct middle ang yumayaman
maganda bigyan ng sariling transpo ang magsasaka o kaya naman ung midman ay hawakan ng goverment 60/40 ang hatian pede na siguro
May free Palay seeds pero pili lang naman ang nabi igyan dito sa lugar namin
Palay buying sa NFA =P20/kilo na. Ibang branch tig P25. Mataas na ang iba pang agri products ngayon. Masipag na DA ngayon, puro parin tayo reklamo.
Grbe ntlga c digong dnya nkita gnu pg hirap sa mga  farmer subrang mura ng copra inuna lng nya png war ship na billion2 halaga npabayaan nnya mga magsasaka na puyat na mgtrabaho tpos Ang mura ng price sa buying products sa copra at palay
Repost Dear Friends, Will you please post and help me forward this message to all your other groups so that it gets circulated, thanks. Soon the season of fruits like mango, durians, rambutans, langsat (lansones), duku, mangosteen, jack fruit, etc will be here. My request to all of us is to NOT throw the seeds in your rubbish bin, but INSTEAD to wash them, dry them (in the sun) and pack it in newspaper and keep it in your car. Whenever you go out and find an open baren land while travelling, be it on a village road, on an empty motorway, throw these seeds. They will germinate easily in the the coming monsoon.  If with this simple act, we can contribute even a single tree each season to our world, our mission of greening this world would be successful.  The Thai government has been promoting this to all its citizen over the last few years. Many of their other districts officers have been driving this campaign aggressively which has been very successful. The number of fruit trees in the wild have multiplied many times over particularly in the Northern districts of Thailand.  Let’s us also join the Thais in this brilliant initiative to spread abundance in nature and in this simple yet effective way and contribute back to our next generations. Please forward to all groups...
Glenn Deewes noble idea. . .
hope coconut price will increase too...
Praise God! Ryan Sorilla
My late grandfather started the planting of rubber trees and the logging concessions in Mindanao...when they cut trees they reforestrated now they just cut cut cut that is why a lot of forests are denuded...they also planted paper trees which later on was continUEd by the late Hans Menzi that was called the Internation Paper Mill..his ashes were scattered in Manila Bay...He was an oldtimer Swiss Business man who owned Bulletin Today Liwayway Publishing and other chain of businesses...he was the God father of Bongbong Marcos...I do not know if Bongbong was one of his heirs because he had no heirs...so I heard that Bongbong was one of them...Mindanao is really the land of promise that is why a lot of folks moved out there when the had the homestead grants!!!
Tom Fiel ah ok buti siguro sa inyo dha medyu mahal yung bilihan sa palay
South Cotabato 17.50 fresh palay
YEBA! Things are finally looking up for the natural rubber producers!    Thank you, Sec Emmanuel Pinol , for your untiring support for the small producers of our natural rubber!
Alex Bermudez👍🏻👍🏻
Kyrie Abigail ikaw jud ako na remember last time u told me gusto ka mag tanum ug rubber
Mabuhay ang rubber farmers... salamat Sec Piñol
Yes sa palm oil madali ka talaga aasenso nuong 7 per kilo pa 7months lang nakabili na ako ng 4wrd.  7pesos pa ang sedlings 85pesos lang ang 0060abono 900lang ang 2100  400pesos lang ang labor nuon 250p per day. Ang gas nuon mura pa. Ang palmoil ay every 10days harvest na. Hinde pa mainit . May kambing ka pa as alternative income . 1 to 2 years ma intercrop mo pa ng saging or mais. Sa ngayon ang presyo 280 to 340 n lang. Samantala yon ang nagpaasenso sa malaysia at indonesia.
Hoping for increase price of rubber..
Cheaper rice sana
Praise God! Ryan Sorilla
Criselda Sorilla wow gyud
Say Almadinie tinood unta...
btaw, nay.. matinuod jud unta..
Alex Bermudez👍🏻👍🏻
Ysa Ada Ramos salamat ani nga post .
Alex Bermudez hapit naka ma rich sir. Ahw super rich diay kai rich naman daan 🤣🤣🤪🤪
Cheryl M Yorong ako na unta ipaputol hapit
Sol Yorong nah maayo nalang wa pa
Bang Momongan Conanan murag nindot nig matinood maam👏
Nesson Binobo oo daghan jud malipay
Right
Wow nice
I hope so...
Yes,Sana
Debbie Leigh Delos Santos nah swerti kaau sila!dati pagka bagsak sa rubber wla nay pag asa mutaas ang presyo daghay  nmabaligya og rubberan apil yuta
good
Macky Dudz alright!!!
Good
Bliss
good news for you Denvi Cabrera
Thank you Tess
Patiño D. Reneeboy dami ako nyan
Madelyn Langcoban Gomez wow miss lyn good news
Mary Rose Sanchez Lopez unta ma'am hehhehe
Ard Mills hahaha maynalang nis...14.10 lol
Ard Mills mu stable na unta
Sec. Manny Pinol one of the best working cabinet men of PRRD sans media mileage. 👏👏👏🇵🇭🇵🇭🇵🇭🙏🙏🙏
Sec Emmanuel Pinol, this beautiful whale like grain storage should be built all over the country!    Your energy is truly remarkable! You literally hit the ground running after 4 days selling our products in Russia and environs.  Saludo!
Clarita Carlos thanks mam. So much to do, so little time. Just doing my best to help.
MannyPiñol  padayon lang, Gov Sec.. you are on the right track. 👊👊👊👊👊👊👊   Monolithic Mosque Dome sa Iraq, tinamaan ng missile, nakatayo pa rin.
MannyPiñol your effort is priceless in support to our President, daghang salamat. Ang pagiingat ng Dios lagi sa inyo.
MannyPiñol i cried when i saw these conversation...if only all government servants would do these for our country....
Congrats sir piñol for doing the best Ang Good for our beloved country. Mabuhay..
Sir Manny... thank you!
Good job si Manny piñol ! More power po sa buong ahensya nyo
MannyPiñol Thanks so much for the effort in helping the plight of the farmers & in helping in the development of the country’s agricultural situation. God bless & God speed🙏👍🤗
MannyPiñol  Saludo ako sayo  Sir.  Sana maayos po rin ninyo problem ng mga coconut farmer sa madaling panahon.. good luck Sir
You are Truly a gift to this country & to our good & over performing Bday Boy PRRD...  Ur genuine public service is really what makes your heart sing...surely it is the very reason that you are not running out of energy coz iit’s energy giving in itself...what a rare breed...  People with passion can change the world for they can have great ideas that can inspire others to believe in it. They make their adversities their advantage...have seed of greatness in them...and you are that man...  Keep it up, thank you & God bless u more...
Sec Piñol, we need more people like you working beside the good President to make the Philippines a dream country! Mabuhay po!
Ambie Cutler or perhaps evacuation shelter 😊
顏彼得  correct a multi purpose type of building
Amazing 👏🇵🇭👊👊 people’s money well spent
Venus Cayanan tama po kayo nakikita ng mga taxpayers saan na Pupunta binabayad ni lang tax
Wow,iba talaga pag ang leader mo eh corrupt-free. Congrats
A wonderful birthday to Pres. Rodrigo Roa Duterte! Wishing the Pres. good health and good governance!
They cud serve as tourist attractions too..as the millenials love to say, the structure is "instagrammable".. So, paging Dept of Tourism Cagayan..Yoohoo!!
Thank you, sir for your loyalty to President Du30 and the Filipino people! Mabuhay po kayo at ng iyong mga kasama 👊 God bless
nice! but one issue though Sec. MannyPiñol, i hope it doesn't flood much in  the area. while i do notice, the structure is a bit elevated, there is no drainage system around it. this should also be considered in future structures. thanks! more to developments like this!
ロンセスバリエス コイ may drainage system po ito ma'am. At mula po nung I pinanganak po ako 1982 dipa po nababaha ang Southern Cagayan Research Center, Minanga Norte, Iguig, Cagayan.
ロンセスバリエス コイ yap i notice that too elevated sya sa ground sana  tinaas nila kahit one meter high kahit hindi binabaha ang lugar for sikaso lng just in case.ilan kaya ang kasya dyan.congrats sir Pinol.
Good job Sir Manny Pinol an team
Finally, Cagayan is getting some attention! Thank you Sir MannyPiñol, DA and sa ating mahal na Pangulo! May God continue to protect and give you good health!
The strongest structure known to man...   Damihan nyo pa ang mga ganyan, Gov Sec...  Monolithic and Geodesic Domes for the Future👊👊👊👊👊👊👊👊
God bless, Philippines. God bless you Sec. Manny.
Good Job Sir!!! finally a govt with common sense!!!
The first in the world. Thank you Secretary Manny Pinol. Sir Bong Pinol, Diane Faith Garcia.
Sec MannyPiñol , malayo na po ang pinagbago ng DA. Sana magtuloy tuloy po ito...  Nainterview na po kita during your visit here in Capiz po.
Happy birthday tatay Digong.wish you more birthday's to come and good health us always god bless po...😘😘
This kind of structure is needed indeed in Eastern Visayas which are hit by storms more often. Galing!
Happy Birthday Mr. PRRD.  Many thanks for all your hard work, support and kindness & love, specially for those poor people. More power, more good health and more birthdays to come. God Bless you always.
Got the chance to visit this site before the inauguration when the budget officers conducted their field visitation in region 2 last february. It sure is a good investment.
Well done Sir Godbless you DA
good job 👍👏👏 GOD BLESS PHILIPPINES
Happy bday prrd!!!..and thank u sec manny piñol for ur untiring effort to support the govt...para po sa lahat ng inyong pagod, we salute! :)
Keep up the excellent job Sec Emmanuel Pinol.
Rodney Mendioro Balicaco meron actually.
Good design sir🙏🏼
Ok din sya sir..sa mga 7.2 na lindol ..pero hwag naman sana maglindol.
There is really no choice but to adapt . Command centers of ndrmnc  or evacuation centers should also be designed this way for typhone proned areas
Happy birthday#PRRD, more bdays to come.
Its not my birthday. Its the president's. Thanks anyway.
Great Job Sec. Manny Pinol, can the monolithic dome be used also as shelter of our fellows during emergency situations such as super typhoon?
Thank you very much Secretary Pinol.
Jenelyn O. Yuson Congrats Madam
Thank you Sec Manny for your pro active and dynamic leadership at D A.If only we could clone you to head other Depts..just maybe..to alleviate if not eradicate the virus that is corruption plaguing our govt'l system.Kudos and Mabuhay!
Ooooh..😍. Happy birthday, indeed! Good job, Mr. Pinol. You’re one of the best.
Happy birthday tatay digong
Happy birthday president duterte...
Thank you so much Sir for sharing your adovacy to us... I cant emagine how you manage to work 24/7. Thank you so much, we are so proud to have a secreatary like you. Me and my family pray for your good health and safety. Daghang Salamat Sir.
I agree with the design! Hemispherical ends and torispherical
Torispherical sides. I think, can be manufactured by filament-winding process, therefore fast, and very strong and very economical. The naterial is called GRP composite (sandwiched system, with PU Insulation).
This Government can do the Best for the people... thanks Mr. President. Duterte...
Congratulations po Sec. Manny! Happy, happy 74th birthday to our loving Tatay Digong! More birthdays to come, good health and happiness. We love you Mr. President! God bless you po!
Thank you for helping PRRD.... Keep up the good work, sir.
Happy birthday 🥳 po Mayor President
Thats a good idea  it must be elevated so the floods can not get in
Salute to you, Sir! Truly, a very hardworking man at DAR!
Salamat Sec Pinol Ma buhay po kayo at da Department of Agriculture God bless
Happy birthday PRRD,God bless
Congrats sir on this mammoth project
It's a welcome common sense approach.
Thank u so much Sec. Keep up the good work! God bless u sir
Happy bday Tatay Digong! God Bless You Always!!! 🎂🎁🎉💕🎈🌹God Bless also Sec. Manny for being there to support PRRD in his journey to help the Filipino people! 👍👏🙏
Good job Manny we really need this in typhoon belt areas
This is what the true leader who has a love for his countrymen. Building and creating long term plans and goals. Di yung nagpapasikat lang during the term. salute to our president.
More power secretary. Pwede rin monolithic dome house
Yes Happy bday gd tatay digong. Good health ug success po sa iyong presidency. We love u
Meaningful gift Manny Sir to Digs. God bless!
Hope more GERMAN people will make many constrution in PINAS..GERMANS are really Industrious, accurate akd well organisiert. ..
Happy Birthday Mr. President. Good health and more years to enjoy life!!!
Love you sir Manny. Galing nyo po. Kudos!
This is worth sharing Sir Manny! You are one DA secretary that we are proud of! Thank you so much for your support to our president! 👊🇵🇭👏
Congrats po secretary and welcome to region 02
Your doing a good job Sir Manny..more power to you and this government 👍
Well done sir...God bless po....
Hope it was built on high ground!
Happy bday Tatay Digong.. God bless you always.. wish you more more more bdays to come.. we love you . ofw kuwait.
Better than building a new Senate bldg. Thank you Sec.Manny!!
Thank you Sir Manny for your tireless effort!! The Filipino people will always remember your legacy long after you’ll retire from government service with all these innovations you instituted. More Power to you Sir! God bless!! 👊👊🇵🇭🇵🇭
Great! This is the first time I see this kind of design. Congratulations and Happy Birthday too Sir PRRD!
Congrats sir Manny. You surprised us with this new structure, so with your many other projects already accomplished!!! Please continue doing what you have started and more, for the good of all Filipinos nationwide. 😊
MORE POWER TO YOU MANNY...PAG MANNY MEANS MANY MONY👏👏👏👏👏👏👊👊👊
Happy Birthday President mayor Tatay Digong Duterte may the Good Lord shower with so much blessing, Good Health, Sharper Minds and Stronger Faith To God🍕🍕🍾🍾🍾
Happy birthday Pres. R. Duterti ! We are very proud of you..
Happy birthday Tatay Digong
VERY GOOD JOB SIR MANNY PIÑOL!
I love seeing encouraging developments like this. Keep it up sir!
Happy birthday  President Duterte!
More power to you sir...
KUDOS to you  idol manny..it makes real good sense  to build like this all over the country...
God Bless on your Birthday PRRD! & Thank you for what you have done to our country.
Earth dome buildings are way cheaper I think. I am hoping that areas prone to typhoons should build dome houses made of earth.  Good job Secretary!
PERFECT disaster-shelter design. This is good news.
How many more of this facility will be built across the country? Also, I hope that DA will build storage facilities that could be used by small farmers and MSMEs, which will protect them and consumers from the cartels that try to manipulate the supply of produce to increase or decrease prices.
Congratulations Sir Manny Pinol and to all who made it happened. Good leadership + vision and goals for the country = excellent result.
I hope that can also withstand Magnitude 7 and up earthquakes. Typhoon isn't the only natural disaster in the Philippines. ;-)
Good job   Sir 👏🏼 👍
Good job sir Manny Pinol
Wow Godbless Philippines ♥
Good job Sir Manny Piñol and the team,Godbless..
Good job Gov. Manny Piñol👏👏👏
Gratz sec MannyPiñol
Good job sir !
Good job 👏👏👊👊👍👍👍👍
Money well spent.
Indefatigable!  Kudos sec manny!
Congratulations sir!
Happy birthday!!!
hbd prrd.. wish u good health always...
Good job sir.  Manny
Kudos to Sec. Pinol. I’m proud of you.
technology for sustainability
JUST WOW!!!.. BLESSINGS!  ..... I SEE YOU...
Proud Pinoy under your banner
Very innovative
congrats Sir!
Good thinking.....amazing idea
Salute sir!!!
Happy birthday tatay
Applause  GOOD JOB!👊
Its great !!!
The best DA Sec.!!!
Happy Bday Mr President!!!
Happy birthday PRD
God be with u always sir
doomsday seed bunkers....
Karen Enselay wow!!!!! ❤️❤️❤️🇵🇭🇵🇭👊🏼
Brilliant Sec. M. Piñol!
Good job sir!
Inspirational
👏🇵🇭👊👊
👍👍
👊👊👊👊👊
Excellent! 👊
SUPERB
Wow! Great job! 👏🙏👌
God bless
Good  job
Wow na wow
happy bday
Good job sir
THANK YOU
Good job sec,... 😂😂😂
I LIKE THIS
Wow
Wow!
Wow
wow
WOW!
yes
Thank u Sir MannyPiñol
Sir MannyPiñol please consider to aim and become a senator after your term as secretary. We need senator with a farmer's heart, who understand and support farmers. Anyway, thank you sir. Keep up and may God continue to guide, bless you and all your deeds.
Sir pls take agood look of the plight of farmers @ eastern part of enrile, which is being served by CARAGUE CREEK , we have submitted our proposals already straight to  your office, pls pls, ubos na po yung tubig sa creek , sana may emergency fund ka para magawa na this summer.. tnx
Next convert sports domes into multi purpose calamity resistant shelters
Sec, tnx for liking my comment! You're my idol, working po kasi kau for the good of our Pinas...more power and good health!
Wow.. God bless you, Sir Manny. Our country needs you.
Joerg Wehner  they do cooperations with Philippine government
Congratulations Sir. God bless your path.
Happy Birthday, Pres. Duterte!
This dome survived an atomic blast:  http://visithiroshima.net/world_heritage/a_bomb_dome/
Happy birtday prrd sir many efren pinol mi for congresman kidapawan city
Pisting yawa grabe nato oi nano man!long live the President!!!
Congrats nm sir
Wow congratulations
Much better if Solar powered... 👍
Wow, the best😘
Happy Birthday po😊
👏👊🏿👏👊🏿👏👊🏿👏
👍👏👊
💐💐💐💐💐💐🌞🌞🌞🌼🌼⭐️⭐️👊👊👊👊👊
👍
Hbd po
Awesome!
Wow....
Maita
Yes
Nice!
Nice!
Coconut oil is better than palm oil. Please find ways to promote the coco oil more. Coconut oil is the future cure all!
Joven Chua Conde even without obligation in WTO they are our neighbors, we are ASEAN db? We should help one another in the region.
Some UK supermarkets had banned on selling Palm oils. It’s off shelves here. Our own coconut oil is better for cooking and other health related usage. I would stick on our own coconut supplies for the country. Good for our economy too!🇵🇭
Pres.Duterte was right in appointing you as the Sec. of DA. The Philippines is indeed lucky to have you manning the dept. I pray that our loving God will keep you safe and blessed you with continued good health.🙏
It is impt to educate the consumers that coconut oil is way much better health wise, so they themselves will shift to use our local coconut products. At sana meron regional processing plant ng coconut kasi if Coconut is not available for local use(kasi kung meron man processing plant that operate  locally it is for export lang-chinese owned) and palm oil are readily available why not go for palm oil its cheap and its there upon our reach.
Mary Ann Dabalos Rabadon Korek,  even here in kamnorte with one plant but for export,  another one on going construction for export again (chinese also) , cooperative is the best way to counter act this with govt assistance since farm owners don't have capacity for machinery reqt
Rowena Paredes Barrios Ma'am the Filipinos should dig in more to learn more about the health benefits of the coconuts. We have it in our hand already we don't pay attention to it. As in nag aspire pa na kikita by exporting abroad I find that wrong.  Here in Europe they are mad about VCO n other coco products and are  paying 3x more. It'sexpensive up here. Myself and my sis-in-law was diagnosed with breast cancer last March 2018.  My mastectomy was done. April 2018 such a short time to do what I needed to do before my surgery.  A German friend Introduced to me so with my sis-in-law the VCO as she don't want us to undergo a chemotherapy, she even come to my place with all the fruits and wild herbs to make a smoothie with VCO. With prayers and I religiously do my routine: . First thing before waking up I do oil pulling using VCO, take VCO, my meal-juices and smoothies with VCO, when I got my biopsy result it is all clear so no chemo needed. Glory to God. My sis-in-law who is hesitant and don't want to go through with the VCO routine is now doing her chemo.
Mary Ann Dabalos Rabadon good idea po yan
best secretary in Du30 admin..
So happy to see a hardworking Sec. Manny , last admin zero accomplishment ang Dept of Agriculture . Fighting Sec.Manny 👏👏👊👊👊
What I like about this administration and the some cabinet Sec are there transparency and hard working. Kudos Sec.
I agree. Stop the talks implementation is a must!
Much better solution...and they have to move faster...
Plz Sec Piñol help the coco farmers...
James Jacob oo bayaw simple lang diba 🙂
Good job Sec. MannyPiñol hope  the price of the copra will soon recover..badly needed by the coco farmers..
KUDOS TO YOU SEC. PIÑOL FOR DOING  YOUR BEST IN HELPING THE COCONUT FARMERS...
Bingo! A Port-Pair Approach of monitoring using ICT-aided tech may help capture the real data. Great job, SECDA.
Sana naman hndi lang ito publicity stunt....if that is so, thank you Sec.  for the actions you've made to resolve this issue....
I think un sana ang pinakamandang immediate solution, 100% ban sa palm oil importation! I believe Indo and Malay only reacted to protect their interest, and PRRD Admin only compromise!
Salesman, Diplomat n Public Servant. . .ingat po. God Bless!
You only get what you give.
Job well done sir.
Good job Manny 😊
Salamat sec manny.
Wow bright gid kaayo ang idol ko sir Manny Pinõl
Listen to the farmers not to them xxxx
Thank you Secretary Manny Pinol.  Look Bro Anjo Nicholas
Pero impressed ako kay manny pinol ha.. in fairness he seems to be doing his job well and seems to actually know the issues here in philippines only thing is can it be solved?
Anjo Nicholas bro be patient and be hopeful.
Fingers and toes crossed lol
Howard Sapa haha.. ma balik nalang q bclod mek..
Right
Good job sir... tnx
Many thnx...
I remember, Manuel Luis Madres :-)
Soon our first 3 WELL PUMPS/BISOL SOLAR Panels SPIS Systems will be fully commissioned (currently under installation). With the next batch already under planning phase.. We are very honoured to be part of this project in the Philippines through our local partners..
Sir Sana sa probinsya Ng Occ. Mindoro magkaroon din Ng ganyan.. the province of OCC mindoro is one of the biggest producer of rice, corn, onion, etc. Farmers deserve to receive like govt assistance...
Rtc Casabar Sir hingi p kayo ng cold storage pra kompleto na gamit nyo!
Gerardo Empleo Suello oo nga eh. Puro politika mga leaders namin dito. Ty sir
Through our local partners we can supply the complete solution from Europe. Top quality technology and quality. Plus full local support.
Good job sir Manny, hoping to have those solar irrigations too here in Quezon.
I hope Isabela will receive the same... Isabela needs these things also...
We are ready to provide solutions in Mindoro, as we are in other regions right now... We already made presentations in San Jose and other areas..
Sana na nga po nagsama sama tayong mga solarista dito sa Pilipinas...Panels from Solar Philippines....installation kay Denz Z. Ortiz and othwra like Engr. Romero .consultant si sir Ed Ed Brisenio..
Good it’s about time help farmers !!!
Work lng ng Work sir Manny.. Thank You for this wonderful Project.
Wow!...Cagayan is getting some attention!...💚💜
Congrats! keep it up, Sir!
God bless Sir
Two thumbs up ako syo sec manny..
640k worth of diesel for the 32 ha. Nice
Good jon working secretary
Wow
Congrats 👍🤗
Bernard Francisco yes there are local companies constructing spis.
Nevoj Nosis hindi under sa DA and provincial at saka city vets. Under po sila sa LGU.
MannyPiñol  Haay salamat. 😊 Sir meron po ako PM.
MannyPiñol :  are there govt.assisted funding programs for local cooperative Association to do and make a positive contribution for many farmers and citizens!  KMG DA Programs!
Thanks Secretary.
Good job sir. People need to know about these projects...
Maraming salamat sir GOD Bless
Meron po tayong design for vegetables or high value crops sir.
We always design the SPIS project according to the requirements of the end user. Next month we installing a system on an Organic Vegetable farm in Tagaytay..
Ed Skinner thank you very much for the info. I will try to conduct location specific cost comparison (long-term) between the solar powered irrigation vs electric powered system with reservoir for a 1 hectare veggie farm. I am interested to venture into high value veggie production.
that is the future of our agrix :D
Good job for all yu have done sir Manny its time for farmers to shine I salute u sir !
Thank you sir MannyPiñol 👏👏👏
Hon. Sec,we will be grateful if Bataan( at Region 3) ; comprising of 12 municipalities;  be one of the beneficiaries of the SPIS Project. May I suggest Samal, in particular. Thank you in Advance👍
God Bless you sir!!!
More and more pls
This is a good news
G double O D  J O B...
Wow great job
wow!😁
Hayaan nyo na po miss Hope OBrien, baka po motto ni sir Jordan Massagan eh, To See is to Believe... Igalang nlang po natin mam...
Right
Sana All
I know the place, we might try to see it Bernard Francisco
Ella Arellano yassss
Sec.Manny gumagawa po kami ng Ferrocement tanks na may water holding capacity ng 10 to 100 cu.m. and above. More than one half po ang ma save kumpara sa reinforced concrete  water reservoir. Sana makatulong kami sa solar irrigation projects  mo po in line with Pres.Duterte Build Build Program.
Among tinahud nga Secretary of Agriculture...may we request your kind attention and favorable action to help our Hon.Mayor with his legislative body to irrigate our irrigable areas here in our municipality of Baliangao..We have here still  1,000 hectares more or less irrigable areas...presently only 650 hectares irrigated,..Thank You much secretary for the positive response..
Ok lang po Secretary better luck next time Sir hehehe ♥️♥️
It is the performance that really counts other than actual physical presence.
Very nice
Hon.Secretary Pinol please consider our municipality of Baliangao 5th class municipality to avail this project.We have still here 1,000 more or less irrigable areas..presently only 650 hectares were irrigated.. If given this project..it could be of great help to our municipality specially to our constituents...Ng submit na kami ng Letter of Intent ni Regional Director Carlene Collado... Thanks for the positive response Secretary Pinol...GOD BLESS AND PROTECT you at all times.m
Right
Sir kindly consider our farmers in San Agustin, San Jose, Occ. Mindoro to avail this project.Our farm lands are productive and can grow different crops, given this project could be of great help to them Maraming salamat po.
Great  Job  in  Agricultural  Modernization
Great  Job  in  Agricultural  Modernization
Right
wow...dynoChickens!
U better believe Gov.
I want to have and breed them, where can I get one?
Halos imported breed naman....sana local breed hindi kasama imported...
Not surprised. We raised Babrock back then. Chicks were sent by my uncle from US early 50s.
Pano po mka avail nyan sr mannypiñol thanks
snaag breed sa ibang region Nang Pilipinas pra ma encourage poultry farm raiser ibang breeds...
I commend the Philippine Competition Commission or PCC on its plan to investigate this matter. Such matter is prevailing for years until now. The PCC after its investigation and after also founding out the persons responsible should file appropriate charges against them in courts and be able to prosecute them with DOJ's help. This matter must stop as it is eroding the state of Philippine agriculture and putting the onion industry in bad taste.
it is time for government to win farmers and to dislodge traders or whatever evil forces which degrades filipino farmers interest and upbringing to build a stable financial return for their hardwork substantial to our economic needs
I an offering my company services in Cold Storage Facilities to our farmers: www.bttsilogistics.com
Leandro Figuracion you are right sir
Long term solution, provide cold storage for cooperatives to operate..
Sir MannyPiñol itodo nyu na  for the sake of Philippines Agriculture
Good job sir Sec. Manny Piñol keeps up the good work in your teams sir maraming salamat po at natutukan niyo ang mga problema ng magsasaka God Bless you always sir with your Teams,,,,
Wow
Charity begins at home..
PLEASE DO SAME IN EVANGELISTA NAUJAN ORIENTAL MINDORO..TY PO
Well done. I just came back from Morocco. They have the biggest solar energy plant. It makes so much sense. Kaya din natin yan. More power with God's blessings
Good job sir!
Hope you were able to meet the children of the Magsasaka of North Cotabato. FOOD SECURE PHILIPPINES.
Continue the good work mr.secretary para sa bayan.more power God bless po.
Good job  working secretary
God bless the work of your hands, Sir! One by one, I know your dreams for our agriculture sector will come to pass.
God bless Philippines- sir Manny  Salamat kaau
You are the best Secretary Sir.
God bless you all sir
Wow
How I wish that people of Sipalay city avail also
good job. sec. piñol.. 👍👍
Good job
