Coconut has many uses, let's use it for our daily consumption....Coconut oil is good for cooking, its so easy to make it!  i hope God will give us Filipinos wisdom on how to manufacture it to run our Automobiles & tricycles.
Agree
agree
I agree with u sir, the low price of copra might break even or worst lugi pa. I strongly opposed about other alternatives for the products of coconut tree other than copra and pag uuling.
G
High time to protect locally produced Coco oil
Jesus V. Bajacan kindly share what are the local coconut brands so we can advocate the purchase of Filipino coco products.
Frecy Dela Cruz i agree po.. kaya let's activate our hibernating love towards our farmers.. let's fill our homes with coconut products..  i have been advocating every homes to have following:  VIRGIN COCONUT OIL as this treats a lot of health concerns at para hindi po tumaba..  coconut oil instead of palm oil, canola oil, vegetable oil for cooking, muscovado instead of refined sugar, daily supply of buco juice instead of very unhealthy and expensive milk tea, gatorade, etc.., buco salad as desert instead of unhealthy chocolates, popcorn, etc.... for first aid from poisoning, all homes should have ACTIVATED COCONUT CHARCOAL POWDER.. its not expensive to have all these coconut products.. we can save hundreds of thousands from medical expenses.. this nation will be healthy if we have healthy food products we use at home and in restaurants.. Its our duty to spread the truth to our family and friends and co workers..
Rene Pamintuan palm oil is one of the raw materials in food and beauty industry.  We should be adding value to our raw materials.
its a good move of the government will not import palm oil anymore.
Paki check po sa carmen north cotabato sir💗salamat po..God bless you 🙏
Keep up the good work for your citizens Sec. Pinol!
Priority our coco farmers...
Great moves Go a head DA MannyPiñol.
Sir manny Willing po akong mag invest at mag create ng coop for farmers to have storage. Need lang help ng government for training and others needs
Dexter Carlit its happening.. But sometimes we need to gamble. We cant sit and wish only
MannyPiñol yes po 5 --8   nalang  presyo sa murtha ALitaytayan san jose occidental mindoro taga
Salamat sa action sir MannyPinol ,sana po abutan pa mga sibuyas dito sa bayan ng lupao, nueva ecija. ayaw na pong ipabunot ng mga farmers ang mga sibuyas dito kaysa mga mapagsamantalang traders ang kumita ng napakalaki... Marami pong masisirang sibuyas dito sir lalo na at gumagayak ang ulan dito... Sana po makamit namin ang tamang presyo...
MannyPiñol Sec thanks po sa pakikinig nyo sa aming karaingan at mga aksyon. Sobrang daming problema po...
Gloria Ili Segaya maam..dito occi wlang ganyang price..
Agreed!! Their using their powers/ connection to manipulate. Then the sad part, :( :(   Every Year lagi silang baon sa utang,  para makapagsimula tapos Walang kita. Umaasa na makakabawi.  LET THE POOR FARMER GET WHAT THEY DESERVE !  Please Have Mercy on the Farmers.
Impose higher taxes/tariff to those importers of onions and garlics. By this manner our (Filipino) farmers will live a prosperous life ang uplift their morale.
DA should open their own cold storage to neutralise the cartel. Help small farmers form a collective or federation to negotiate with foreign buyers.
Delfin Mahinay amen.
Thanks Po sec Manny For your supports to our farmers of rice and onions in Nueva Ecija
Love the way steps are taken. God Bless you.
Agarang solusyon . Nice move to help onion farmers
Please pakibilisan po action
Sec Manny, DA must build cold storage facilities in areas where it is mostly needed & must be manned by govt personnel just like the NFA warehouses. If you have an unused NFA warehouse you can just convert them as cold storage. Make sure you solarize them too pra bumaba  ang OpEx mo! Bili kau ng solar panels gawa s Batangas meron nman tau planta dun at baka makahingi p kau discount!
👊🏽👊🏽👊🏽
Ung mga dating problima kasi ngaun lang mga nakikita pero ang maganda sa ngaun inaaksyunan na hindi tulad nuon na pinababayaan lng kaya sa mga susunod na anihan jan ninyu mararamdaman kung ano ung mga ginagawa ngaung pag aayus at aksyun kaya hindi natin pwedeng sabihin na too late...
Tessie B. Tekla 8 pesos nalang sa mindoro ang good. Grabe talaga. Mabuti nkahabol pa aq sa 27 per kilo.
Mercy Viray Admana totoo po yan... di hamak na mas malasa ang bawang natin.
may bumibili po ng 15 pesos dito San jose
Yes... We really needs government intervention...protect our locsl farmers...
Cora Ranada ...🙏🙏...Sometime we seek Devine Intervention.
Mardy Roque Ornedo yes ang executive order at gawan na provisions solve ang industria ng agricultura.
Manny Pinol:  No onion importation pending cartel probe....   Doctor: We must give these dead people the best medicine available to mankind...
It’s not too late para sa future harvest nalang.
We know that you're taking actions sir.. please help our farmers.. why do we even need to import goods if our local production is enough.. a vast supply of imported goods cause too much supply availability therefore lower price.. our farmers have no choice but to sell their harvest at a devastatingly low price not even able to make a break-even with their cost of production... have mercy to our farmers., buy from our local small producers/farmers... sariling atin muna bago ang import mula s ibang bansa...
put up cold storage for the farmers sir
🙏🙏🙏
Right
yes!!!!
praying for its success
Praying for success
Let's see if this will increase the buying price of raw rubber within 1 year,then we can say it's successful.Hoping...
Excellent yan
We need investors .. some entity to process our latex .
Congratulations, great job!
Getting there!!!
sana po yong  quality is good
Sir pls check my pm to your page. Naandoon na po yong design ng eagle. Di kasi maupload dito sa comment box. Thank you and more power!
A big YES to #SuportaLokal ❤
Hope also all government vehicle one of the sample to all pilipino to fist buy Philippine product
We have to start somehow somewhere!
God Bless po! Good job po
Right
Goodjob
wow ha
MannyPiñol ahh okay Sir..salamat sa reply..abi nako pwede na sa tanan labi na,sa member sa farmers association..amping kanunay Sir
Wowww
for the farmers association,pls be cautious in expanding your production as egg prices is very volatile.feeds price is always increasing.make sure there is still enough room for expansion or increasing production in your area.egg commodity is perishable n you cant keep it for long.
Hopefully not coconut farmers. Else they'd really be disappointed.
since 2008, i have been promoting also the VIRGIN COCONUT OIL (VCO) and the use of coconut oil for cooking.. I am strongly discouraging Filipinos from using canola oil, palm oil, vegetable oil, soya bean oil as they are highly toxic and have been causing serious health concerns..  VCO helped me get well from my health crisis (ovarian cysts, severe endemetriosis and small myomas).. Philippines is very blessed to be abundant with coconut trees.. DOH, Dept of Education and DA have to work hand in hand in telling the Filipinos about the healthy truth about coconuts.  Sadly, the doctors wont tell this fact to you...on how VCO can heal a lot of serious health concerns...
Needs to promote benefits of coconut oil/milk so people must  be aware healthy na mas mura pa .
Lilieae Ripplinger tumpak ang observation mo maam , dito sa europa ang taas ng presyo ng produkto galing sa niyog , advertised nila ng maganda , sa europa ang mag sasaka ay hindi nag hihirap dahil binibigyan halaga ang kanilang pawis ng kanilang gobyerno dapat lang na bigyan ng fair trade deal ang mga magsasaka sa pinas para naman ganahan pa sila lalo magtanim
Bonnie Javier he dont insist  Sadly for the past years it was neglected by the coco authorities and Govt  No one made the initiative to divert  So the poor farmers still into kopra. Last oct after coco industry was returned to da  Sir manny put this into his vision  To finally venture to that But may Take time and budget  But atleast I trust sir Manny he will do his best to accomplish that
Jigs Dolores Ignacio the coco levy fund must be returned to the  farmers tru this endeavor. It should be used to established  coco processing plants.
Bonnie Javier yes I hope so too. But just recently prrd vetoed the bill because I think he saw it is lacking to protect the interest of the farmers  Possible the corrupt will benefit  So it is very important to elect congresman and senators who really think of the people and not how much they can get
Boe Sison this is a very good question sir. What we're trying to achieve is to regulate muna the palm oil given its unsustainable practice. Pero hindi agad agad, what we can do is transition the existing palm oil farmers into other coconut product or produce since malaki ang supply natin ng coconuts at from root to tip ay may industry.
Coconut tree is the Tree of Life.. it is very true indeed..  Oil from palm trees in the meantime, causes havoc to environment and to our health..
Francis Rivera yes he is in to that direction right after coco industry was returned to da in oct   Thats on his vision  We Just need to pray and support him and hope the budget be Release
Not enough gyud Sec.Piñol.
25 pesos Sec. Piñol. Thanks
Make it happen immediately!!!
At least you trying your best.
better
Rene Pamintuan  Cipy po.Thank ypu Sir.
Antonio Gerundio  thank you. This is good. And fast!
Salamat sir Manny  Praying to be part of your team soon.  God bless sir Take care always
Sir I hope this will finally lower the market cost of onion. If I will compare the rates here to Dubai wherein onion is being imported from India per kg there is only from php13 during vegetable Market day every Wednesday evening. And php26 on normal days. Same thing with coriander, spring onions, kinchay etc with a fixed rate of php 13 per bundle.
Smart decision Mr Sec👍
#SecPiñol, sa Mlang nyo nalang ilagay po yan. Make it an example. Lapad2x sang Mlang kag damo basakan toh.
Kung ayaw nila..trnasfer them to our place, the project is very much welcome here in the cordillera. They want to control over the people kaya ganun.
now up to the people of north cotabato if they will continue to choose and elect these kinds of self centered politicians who only think of their political ambitions rather than the benefit of the people. i read your previous post sir how they held back the program DA had initiated to help the people  but for them politicking comes first your project should fail because the people will end  up voting for your relatives should it succeed. so these kinds of politicians are the kinds who really dont deserve to be in office  they are "politician" and you are sir Manny and your family are   " great public servant" i cant contribute  to help prrds administration for i am ofw as dh here in hk. replying to some frustrated farmers  or some people who discredit you is the only thing i can do. but i will always  support you and pray that you succeed sir  and hope one day the farmers fishermens of our land will finally see the hardwork that you and this administration si doing for them. God bless you sir... thanks for your hardwork sir.
Trabaho lang Sec. Manny, ipagpatuloy ang kabuhayan ng mga magsasaka! Looking for the best place for abundant water source underground? There is a scientific method that we are specialized, experienced, and available all over Philippines. If you have any requirements for AQUIFER (underground water pool) location you can avail of our services for georesistivity testing and deepwell drilling. 09301542115- Gerick Padilla
THIS TIME SECRETARY PINOL YOU ARE DOING A VERY GOOD JOB?
Excellent performance
Continue your good work, Sec Manny 👍 We support you 👊😊
ah mao d i ni... ok kaayu..
👊🏻👊🏻👊🏻
Cris Ian Pizon yes of course. Thats the other set up.
This together with solar powered desalination might be a better option than a dam that would submerge thousands of hectares of land valuable for agriculture. What do you think, Sec. Piñol?
this is so applicable to a tropical country like the Philippines...longer summers and drought-like weather...job well done to u Mr. Secretary!🇵🇭
Wow. Thanx israel..  ols share here nefros oriental... top retirement place by forbes magazine
There is a fb group hr Ram Pump Philippines. The govt can get some inputs. Support is needed for R&D.  Other LGUs is already implementing the project you can browse in youtube.
🇵🇭🇮🇱❤️❤️❤️
Support the president and his team ❤️🇵🇭🤜🦅🇺🇸
God bless..
anything that would help the economy of pinas should be appreciated!!
Sec Manny, if Cotabato politician opposes that brilliant idea, offer it then to the many provinces who need that and who, with their open arms accept that blessings for their farmers.  Until you have filled the many places with solar panels, let us see saan pulutin yung Politician in Cotabato pag nakita ng mga constituents nya ang reason nya for declining it. Sa kangkungan for sure ang lagpak nya pag ang mga tao na ang decide sa kanya.  Just keep the people informed Secretary at patuloy po kayo maging matapang at tapat sa inyong pagsisilbi sa bayan.  Maraming salamat sa inyong sipag at lagi po kayo mag ingat. 😊
yan si GOV pinol at gobernadora ng cotabato kontra partido kasi yan kaya pati mga farmers damay.pa molitika lng cgi sana kapakanan nman ng mamamayan atupagin nila.
hikay sila sir o laban gid nahisa lang na sir kay damo ka proyekto.
Good job SEC. PINOL
Good Job Sec.Piñol your in the right tract for the Pilipino’s
Kong paramihin yan sa mindanao ... super wow pwede na gagawa rice terraces sa mindanao   power by solar ... pipeline system
Syempre indi sila ka komisyon. Pero kung dam na tibatiba sila.
soil management in agriculture industry or crop management system seems overlooked, i.e. the best soil pH of various crops, how to check and correct or cure the soil if necessary for optimum intake of nutrients, enhance plant growth and maximise the much needed increase in production..
Peter sinata ang nuclear power plant ng Japan correct me if I'm wrong ay nasa 5 miter above the sea at ang tsunami ay may taas na 7 miter at ang lakas na earthquake ay intensity 9 at walang napaulat na taong namatay dahil sa radiations ang pumatay sa tao doon ay tubig baha... Now kumpara natin ang BATAAN NUCLEAR power plant na may taas na 18 miter above the sea at para abutin ng tsunami ang BATAAN NUCLEAR Power plant kailangan ang lakas ng earthquake ay aabot ng intensity 18 at kung ang lindol or earthquake ay aabot ng intensity 18 gunaw napo ang mundo bukas man o sarado ang BNPP at isa pa po kung masama talaga sa kalusugan talaga ang nuclear power plant bakit patuloy gumagamit ang Japan ng nuclear power plant..at isa lang ang nakikita ko ang mga cabinets adviser ng kanilang leader ay may pusong makatao ayaw nlang nakikitang namamatay sa gutom ang kanilang mamayan gumawa sila ng malinis sufficient at cheaper energy sources para makatunaw sila ng metal na gagamitin nila para sa kanilang tools and equipment... Kaya meron silang mga company ng sasakyan na ginagamit nila sa pagawa ng foods at iba pa..
Fhlo Payoc opo, if tama po yung naaalala ko 4 po ang nuclear power plant ng japan, tapos marami narin silang solar farm. Kaya lumilipat na sila sa electric sa pag luto instead of gas. May nabasa rin po ako na pati hot shower magiging powered na by electricity. Kaya po balance ang gas sa japan.  Wag po tayong mawalan ng pag asa. Mag boto lang po tayo ng mga taong sa tingin natin ay maka bayan. Tsaka supporta lang kay pres digong, malalim ang butas na inaakyat natin, pero hindi impossibling maakyat.
Lets plant millions of trees Sec. Pacific ocean is just next to us. Whatever water evaporated from d ocean on day time will surely condense to our forrest on night time.
Rod Bioco you said it correctly!
Farmboy Coloma true, soil rejuvination is a must!
The Philippines need a better vision in agricultural policies.   1. Start from the education system includes the agricultural subjects .  2. Educate and encourage the frames for giving more benefits.  3. Change the corrupted management system,   3.
Hi all....I'd like to share my powerpoint presentation as guest speaker during the recent luncheon meeting of the Rotary Club of Davao entitled, "Water is Life". It argues that the most important factor in the water supply for human consumption is REFORESTATION. Emphasis: It's not the only one but it's arguably the one with the biggest effect. Check it out: https://goo.gl/Yg2EhL .
Increased water yield is not just about planting more trees but creating an environment containing a balanced flora (vegetation) and fauna (animals), insects, microbes, humidity, temperature, topography, etc etc... that would give optimum volume, good quality & perrineal (year-round) water yield.
We need forest cover to hold water. Underground water depends on stored water from rainfall and network of surface water winding to the streams below ground. There is a scientific way of finding water underneath. If you have any requirements for AQUIFER (underground water pool) location you can avail of our services for georesistivity testing and deepwell drilling. 09301542115- Gerick Padilla
If the Iand is no longer fit for agriculture and just left unused better construct a rainwater collecting tank on it.Yung mga pdaf Ng mga senator at congressman na ninanakaw Lang Yun Ang gamitin pa finance.
Distribution of free rainwater containers can help conserve water in dams,
Solid Waste Mgt. nato implement strictly from barangay level, Municipal Level up to National level with pinalties ang improper waste disposal
Jahannae Melecio Ang laki laki po ng loboc river nyo pangbalsa lang ng turista
Let’s plant trees.
We need more forests
Wow Kah Nice Thank You Sec Manny
Reforestration is a key.
agri has a tremendous impact in forest conservation especially on buffer zones. in partnership with denr, they can provide alternative livelihood to communities in these areas. and besides, alam ko mas malaki budget ang agri sa denr.
Simple solutions done by many, consistently, can solve water crisis. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9hmkgn0nBgk&list=PLOMZfBFOhU7sSlbeM4wGftCwMUQAewEDc&index=61
Wow beautiful
Miat Dualan ... free irrigation na po ngayon , no fees ...just this DU30 administration time anc i hope they will improve more
Miat Dualan free irrigation now is true.....
Victor Chico at least lesser burden to farmers if NIA are no longer collecting fees. About technical works , we have other govt  agencies like DA , NIA, DENR , LGUs , and others to help the farmers.
MannyPiñol kailangan mo ng tulong sir pwede ako making partner mo sir
Dito sa tabing  barangay namin ang lakas ng patubig solar irrigation po.salamat po sec many.pero po yung isa naman po sablay laki p naman gastos ng DA sec
MannyPiñol i've seen only selected region sa project niyo na yan. It should be whole nation para nmn talagang totoo.
Miat Dualan follow mo si sec. Lodi para updated ka. Hindi yun hula hula sinasabe mo. Just saying
MannyPiñol kung ayaw nila tanggapon bigay nyo na lang po sa amin around 1500-2000 hectares ang benificiaries Sisiman, Lutayan, Sultan Kudarat
MannyPiñol hopefully it will given free the irrigation system unless their is favorable to compadres system like happened in our cooperative the seedling and other machine equipment  not given to the right farmers beneficiary. Do the right things and should be everything will be on the record many farmers are used only for making front for corruption. This is based on our town Northern Samar Old Rizal please do necessary investigation.
MannyPiñol Sec... please... help mo naman po yong irrigation namin dito sa baranggay Angas Batan Aklan.. na makumpuni.. kc dapat 3 na baranggay ang makikinabang nito.. please....
MannyPiñol i hope makarating din ung free irrigation d2 samin sa albay bicol tnx
Anthony Tan your right! But all these farmers want (including myself and my family) is balance of the cost. We spent to much to plant crops not just for seedlings but labor as well but when we sell the product they just want to buy it for such a low price that sometimes does not even cover the cost of what the farmers invested not counting natural calamities will struck the farm (rats and flooding). Yes I do understand the supply and demand, but government should understand as well that timing is everything in farming.
I guess the president have to take notice of this! Or everyone must ring the bell 8888.
Stephanie Kho both wisely...sound good...pag na nalo ang opposition.. guera naman sa congress.. divided we fall... mag tiwala nalng tayo kay digong
Ajrah Khalil Yeap!! I hope they will realize the bigger picture of these ideas!
Zeno Ryujin koeck
In Israel, I saw with my own eyes how the wonders of dessertification, fertigation, drip irrigation, desalination, aquaponics and others worked in Israel, making it a very productive country as far as food production - and even cutflowers - is concerned. Israelis envy us because we have bountiful water resources which are not well harvested and wisely used. Their techniques are now in our farms and our farmers, aided by government, should learn more and adopt them to local conditions.
Mr Gabot, thanks for your observations. God bless your tribe. I too appreciate Israel as model for agriculture.
Thank you sir Ed Skinner for introducing your solar products here in the Philippines and putting SPIS in one Barangay of our town in Cagayan Province by thr Department of Agriculture will boost the spirits of our farmers...and hoping that the LGU's will add more specially along the Cagayan River and its tributaries like Pared River.
Rene this is the reason why we work with local importers/dealers/installers who are experienced in all these matters..
Ed Skinner people like you are really a blessing to us filipino farmers...God bless you and your company.
We've been using solar irrigation system in our farm in Tacunan since 2011 pa! At that time 250 pesos/watt ang cost ng solar panels. Ngaun about 25 pesos/watt n lng! Our country is now producing solar panels in Batangas! Duon n dapat bumili ang gobyerno or buy directly from Chinese manufacturers pra makamura tayo! Sec Manny, please re-evaluate current actual project cost ng SPIS pra po mas marami makinabang n farmers kung mas mura ang bayad ntin sa mga contractors!
Antonio Goyala Dre solar panel cost lng yan 25 pesos/watt. Ang total package ng solar pumping system also includes pump controller &  solar panel racking system which will require additional cost!
MannyPiñol Sir, we can minimize the impact of the el niño if we have good zoning. For example in Gensan, those areas in Brgy Mabuhay, Conel and Katangawan are converted to residential areas but this area fully irrigated by NIA. This are agricultural lands that can sustain even during the el niño last 2014 to 2016.  Tambler and Sinawal areas on the other side were not irrigated because of no water supply but are not developed as residential because it was owned by politicians...  We need to conserved our agricultural lands to supply food at lower cost.
I think sir MannyPiñol  Emmanuel Pinol what the Philippines needs is building  dams to store rain water. With the rainy season in the Philippines, the country will have enough water during dry season. I’m in California where there are 300 days of sunshine and 60 days of rain (winter season). So during winter time there are snowpacks in the mountains that store all this water in the form of ice. Then later in the year it will melt and goes to all the dams. All these water are stored so it can be used by the people from Northern to Southern California.  That’s the main reason why we have enough water. So the Philippines has to build dams for the people to have enough water to use in their households, businesses, infrastructures, and farming or irrigation. I just hope this will be one of the projects of Pres. Duterte during his term. Thanks.
Israel is blessed with BRAINS none with oil.....yun ang comment ni PM Benjamin Netanyahu .....as a result they make the desert BLOOM
Biro mo yan May brains na May oil refinery pa
Sana po matuloy na sya.
MannyPiñol sa bicol po sa bato lake buhi lake needs solar water pumps
Yes indeed, I saw it in Israel they are growing bananas with net, and the are growing mangoes .now  they have more mangoes than Philippines. Fruits n vegetables are so healthy n bigger sizes than ours.
Lloyd Steven yes its true! We just need to use our heads properly! Solar pumping system have been in existence for quite sometime!
Malaking check.lalo may mga rebelde.at walang sapat na kalsada sa mga bukid.wala Naman dapat magutom Kung matyaga Lang sa pagtatanim at walang katatakutang rebelde sa bukid...napansin ko Kasi dto sa Jordan.napakaliit Lang nMan na bansa ito pero lahat ata NG bukid may mga kalsada na.kaya nakakapagtanim CLA kahit papano...
There were already farmers using solar powered pump long before you became a secretary of agriculture because of the neglect of past administration. I hope the implementation of SPIS will benefit those who really have no natural water source to irrigate their lands.
If no corruption, everything is possible here mr. Manny Pinol.
Thank you, Sec. Piñol for having a proactive stance on disasters like El Niño... I hope that with your persistence, our farming and agricultural practices will finally embrace proactive technology to enhance and sustain productivity.
Sec. MannyPiñol  sir..i think we need a law for solar irrigation system so the Government will be obliged to allocate the yearly budget for the solar irrigation system..
exactly as you had said sir secretary, in my place as of now i am overlooking the river  and yet the ricefields looks like chocolate in color,, where will we submit the proposal on solar powered pump, pls help sir...
Sec Emmanuel Pinol, the greatest achievement of the Israeli scientists is that THEY MADE THE DESERT BLOOM!  We should find out how they did it!! Thank you!
MannyPiñol, sir mahirap po talaga palitan ang mind set ng naka gisnang teknolohiya ng mga kapatid natin, I hope you could visit San Mateo, Isabela especially ISU-SAN MATEO we are a school that specialized on agriculture we hope your ideas could translate to being used here as means to demonstrate the effectivenes of the ready available technologies,  God bless always!
Nobody can beat israel in agriculture technology
Droughts can be solve during rainy season: educate people on Dams, crop suitability, ifficient irrigation, with technology of solar.  Qatar convert Salted water to drinkable water, seawages to edible water, same with israel.
Maui Manalo bakit sa mga pananim lang natin napansin na magaling ang Israel? Ang nakita kong pinaka magaling na nagawa ng Israel ay ang pagtayo nila ng kanikang bansa sa lupain ng mga Arabs.Yan ang kataka-taka. hahahahahaaaa...
They got the technology and they are not damn lazy..
Actually the old irrigation surface pumps (NS-50/80/100) commonly used by our farmers can still be used by just simply replacing the old diesel engine by a 3ph AC motor, pump controller and solar panels! Mas mura po pag ganito lng gawin nyo!  The biggest one can pump around 100,000 liters/hr and run by a 11kw AC motor! At mas maganda po pag belt driven lahat pra madali s farmers ang pag maintain! Mahirap po mag align ng coupling driven pump na high speed s bukid dahil wala pong gamit dun!
The reason why they have these great food supplies because they make used of their government fund wisely. Plus, diskarte! Gi-anad man gud ta from the past administrations na dawat lang ta unsay available. Make it happen, sir!
Sec Manny. I was surprised we have your same opinion. I am a farmer in a place without NIA irrigation, no deep wells, no river or creek by my farm. But the intense photosynthetic activity brought by the summer sun thrills me to plant because I know if executed right, this time will allow me to produce highest yield. I will PM you pics of my farm. I use drip irrigation on kalabasa and honestly it is amazing. Allow me to PM you pics on how its done
May we request then sir that we do the same way the other countries do as you illustrated?  We can only be successful in agriculture with the "FULL SUPPORT" of the Philippine government.
Natural mente may irrigation eh hehe! Ani bayin sec. Hehe.. wlang magic dyan
Time to the mind setting... Support secretary Piñol's idea of solar irrigations... Government must provide the necessary budget for this project, not only to support farmers but also to make sure that there will be adequate supply of food on the table...
Rene Lemar Ramel  any solution. That is what I am interested in.  Hope against hope Sabi nga
Way to go brod.  Maybe we cannot do anything as of now about the corruption. But your idea on solar powered pumps will alleviate the drought problem. And if the cost on a per kilowatt basis to operate it is  below the cost charged be electri power suppliers it will be a big help to our farmrs. And instead of loans why not subsidies? You are in a position wherein you can give meaning to the phrase "serve the people". It is the poor people who feel the burden taxes indirectly. Helping them thru subsidies is just like evening the playing field. We lose billions to corruption and those who benefit is a handful of corrupt politicians. It is time to see what this billions can do in the hands of our hardworking farmers.
Invest more in Science Research, Development, and Technology.
We should retool to adapt!
Sir Manny, if your problems are these eco n fin managers including the budget people, allocate a budget from your department to build a pilot project of this nature in the proposed federal states as a demonstration of how to make dry areas productive. I believe there are openminded governors or mayors who you can convince of this concept.
They use drip watering system  no wastage
Dear #Mannypiñol Solar power irrigation is really very important to us especially the farmers but some farmers is appreciated. But doesn't means is already solved the problems of our farmers,before you decides of it another debt of our Gov't,the solar panel that very much costly, why you did not think of the possible ways. Like Rectification of tarification, and Raise of price of Rice from farmers,  farm to market road.and other subsidies,
I tried it na water when it is hot...and effective naman healthy yung pananim. It is a matter of embracing new ideas rather than complaining and blaming....
Waldas waldas lng ang peg natin dito sa pinas  Happy to be wrong
Sir Pinol, why not asking for help in the Chinese govt. Maybe they can provide us solar panels in cheaper prize. I've seen the   video here the wide dessert area of Xingjiang & inner Mongolia before where covered now with farm lands and they used the solar energy.
they use underground sprinklers. the government should subsidize this.
Sir support the Mindanaoan farmer, this is very possible if the government intervene and support.
Get the budget we have a lot of resources here. But we also have a lot of corrupt officials, sabihin nyo sir millions of pesos makukuha nila as their share sa project, kinabukasan approve na budget mo sir, hindi lang sa dream.
This is really possible thru govt project of irrigation..if they will really do...if only thru farmer by themselves its very hard...i admit that somebody could do...but mostly cannot..big issue or problem is water source of the area...then the equipment...and the cost...its a huge investment to a poor farmer...hope we can make solution mr. Secretary...i knew only govt can provide for the poor...
There's money to be made in digging irrigation canals... without a water source
Our  only power is prayer  to our Leadership  and  to its surrounding political  arena.. God  is in control  if  we  pray earnestlt  not  nurmuring.. Remember exodus .. Hope  its a  reminder  to us. Devil is trying to   sow confusion ..
That's a very nice technique we must adopt, I go for that, sir Manny, but I hope you could also solve the problems of our farmers, the very very low prices of all agricultural product, pls stop importations, from other countries unless we run out of supplies...
To make food affordable  and sustainable the Government should sincerely utilize our potential resources by providing sufficient fund to Agri Sector. 75 billion  for rehabilitaion ng manila bay  kinaya ang Solar irrigation na 44 billion wala
Manny your an inspiration to the farmers and the people, but the Goliath in govt. is the brainless politicians that should be replaced by engineers,technologist,scientist and doctors.
Let's do the solar powered irrigation but let's minimize corruption pwede ba!
Sec. paano pagmakulimlim???? Hahahah bobo!!!  God Bless the Philippine Agriculture. Yes we can!!!!!
Hijo, do be circumspect with your words here. Be respectful and be a good model to the young.
Romel Susada hahahahaaa...  i remember who said that.. lol
Sir Manny, we are group of farmers. Our concept is integrated farming system combine with the organic system. Try to invite us and we share our experiences to other farmers. This is the surest we to combat poverty in the Philippines.
Government should support d farmers. Fertilizer, pesticides are very high price.
Frauline Telebangco Cuizon Duja  tama!
Simon Peter Paul thanks Sir.. sana gumising na sila
I was been work In Israel in Agrostudies (on job-training) , Its true,  and Its in prophecised in the Holy Bible that God trully Bless the Nation of Israel overflow and abundantly. Israeli's is really blessful with Brains. And the Government is giving farm technologies to the Farmers, and they are focus to the Agricultural sector for their economically, This is the result of without corruption.   And Israeli Peoples is Honesty, not lazy, they are mandatory to work on time. Tov meod.
Correct po air MannyPiñol
so have a people to study what to do.. reasearcher!!
tubular water spray irrigation .
drip irrigation.
Sec. Piñol is CORRECT.
Very well said al jhun
Don't just be amazed... get their secret...
Promise land
Cge sir push nyo po produkto natin
Congrats to our DA SECRETARY.  The next challenge for his sub-alterns, undersecretaries and regional heads, is to identify the problems inherently stopping the farmers from exporting. ONce you have discovered the disconnects, and developed solutions, exports would boom. For now, it is too difficult for the small farmers to do. Perhaps the big multinationals will respond to this, capable and empowered they are for many years. But then, sila lang.
Philippine Government through PCA should invest in massive R&D so we could discover more products out of our coconut. A well known Coco based corporation tapped a Chinese university to make R&D on coconut products. Presto! That Chinese University came up with 500 usage of coconut. Out from the 500 discoveries, that Filipino company utilized just 50 of those discoveries. And now, that Filipino Coco based corporation is dominating the Coco industry. (Sources: People from the Bureau of Investments).
Salute sir good job
Thank you Lord.
Sir manny market nyu din po ang mga ibang products ng coconut hindi lang oil at water merun po tayung coco sugar, dried coconut, coconut vinegar and alcoholic drinks, granulated, handicrafts, coco peat and coir at mga banana chips
MannyPiñol Sir met na Roy Abaya, and Sir Antonio Gerondo, will offer cold storage facilities and market linkage
Eastern europe here we come!  Kudos sec pinol!
Great job.
That's a good start, yet more has to be done particularly to those farmers who are located in the remote areas that have suffered so much from the slump of agricultural prices, I hope soft loans and technical assistance will finally reach them. Agriculture should be the foremost priority of the government as lack of food is the reason for the woes of the Filipinos.
Produce harvesters and rice planters as well...this is an amazing future for phil. Farmers
Daghan kaayong salamat Sec. MannyPiñol! Mabuhay po kayo for helping us small time coconut farmers!  God bless you more...  ☝☝👍👍
Vilma Lidasan Mamalac parang product nyo ata ung coconut😀
good news
Wow na wow!!!
Good news!!!
Wow sec. Tudohi pa!
keep up the good work!
you're really a hardworking secretary...i salute you Sir.
Include mechanical attachments and working with local fabricators - 🤑
that is nice..Kudos mr. Secretary hope they make small farm equiptment for us..
This is a good prospect. If Belarus will establish an assembly plant, at least the parts that will come into the country will not be taxed high as compared when the equipment is fully assembled. It will generate employment, and some of the parts can be manufactured locally, which may generate more businesses.
JulCes Tajale correct talaga, tires for tractors like these can be made by the newly formed tire company featured recently, for example
Emerson De Jesus For example, the Belarus 921 model midsize tractor 4x4 awd model bare 102HP with cabin pumapalo ng 800K it comes with a high capacity 5 cyl turbocharged diesel engine which has options ng #yamz {russian engine}, #MMZD245 {belarusian engine maker and standard } at isuzu and fuso turbocharged diesel engines in its options, smaller 50 to 99hp and below tractor like the ones pareho. Laki ng kubota garden tractors na models nila ngayon nila play around 200k to 900k php without implements.. Check mo ang mga belarusian based delaers sa internet so you can have an idea of their prices as bare units halos 1/4th to 3 fifth mas mura ang presyo nila keysa mga brands na umiikot sa local market sa pinas of course mamahal yan kaunti coz of taxes
Julito Yranela  dont mind the model BELARUS-5022 na unit.. Tingnan mo ang iba dyan! Ying Belarus-421 nilang model ang tingnan mo.. Pang haciendero yang 5022 model nila natural.. Saka di lang yan limited sa farm use! Those tractors have a dual purpose function at kaya gawing industrial tractors
Sec. Manny, Congratulations, good job. Let's not waste time to welcome this company and ask DTI to organize a  Team to facilitate the issuance of necessary permits and licenses.
Wow, hope the price will be affordable sa kgaya naming mga small time ofw/farmers..
Farm mechanization is a big help to our local farmers that will ensure productivity.
Welcome to the philippines
Basta matibay at quality Invest  tau.. baka for  the  sake of  equiping the  Phils  farmer with that important  machine   and  at the  end maintenance is the problem  kasi  quality  wise  d  tmtagal . hope it worthty to  invest
Jeffrey Fuentes the #MTZBelarus ngayon ay gumagamit ng mga outsourced na parts from leading suppliers sa buong mundo like zf, sachs, etc , yung mga tractors na yan ay may 3 years na vehicle at service warranty at may aftersales guarantee pa
this is it! help the farmers!!!!
Wow....d best sir pinol
Good job sec. Pinol
congrats sir
👍👍
Wow!!!
Astig
Alvin Abitria agree... We should be competitive. Kahit nga sa southeast asia.. Kulelat tayo... We should follow singapore...
Indonesia still imposes restrictions on ownership. In my perspective, this is necessary in order to protect the interest of local businesses. At 60/40 the foreign company or investors are already taking a sizeable stake in the company. The important thing is in the ease of doing business in the country, which our government is addressing.  Indonesia is managing its finances well, and the government owns many of the important business of the country.
Of all the previous DA secretaries we had you are far more the busiest,most industrious,hands on,most initiative,productive,intelligent,articulate,innovative,honest,helpful, Humble DA secretaries Philipines had.You set the bar high when it comes to accomplishments!Bravo Sec. Piñol iba talaga ang DA secretary na laking bukid!!!Best fit with your job...
As you promote sales, promote too replanting as well as an expanded R&D.
Include coco jam spread as another product to promote, as well as the bukayo candies (grated coconut cooked in molasses)
Very good job Sir MannyPiñol. We are a tropical country and we are blessed to have deep rooted plants like fruit trees and other perennial fruits. Fruit plants agriculture has highest Value of Production per hectare per year.. Good for drought situations. Total national agric Value of Production will increase. Good marketing.
amen!
MannyPiñol Sec Manny, pwede po bang pakipropose mo po sa POEA at DFA at Immigration office na gawing mga ambassadors of Philippines products ang ating OFWs by giving them proper training about our country and our crops or products and why they will be proud Pilipinos bago po umalis ng bansa po.  We have premium services and products po. On this way, mababawasan po ng malaki ang pagka colonial mentality nating mga Pinoy po at upang tangkilikin natin ang mga lokal na products po.
Congrats Sec Emmanuel Pinol... @ that Level in tgr global stage...u are now a consumate Storyteller...” If u cannot tell it, u cannot sell it...” stories have a unique Power to move people’s hearts...purposeful storytelling is s game-chahger ...it can be built in 3 steps;  1. Grab ur listener’s attention w/ a question or unexpected challenge. 2. Give ur listeners an emotional experience by telling a story around the struggle that will ultimately lead to conquering the challenge... 3. Galvanizw the listeners with a call to action...  You did the 3 Sec Manny...they won’t stay engaged if they are not excited by the struggle in the Middle...its called Dramatic Arc leading to call to action...  What successful Business Pitch... Congrats l
Calling all filipino....please buy / use coconut cooking oil to help our coco farmers.
Yan ang man of action puro gawa hindi dada. 🖒sir manny piñol. Keep it up good work!
Congrats Manny Pinol,we pray for the success of this venture.
Good news! Good luck and God  bless Philippines!!!
Thanks Mr. Sec.
Sir manny,,, salamat s imohang effort to promote more on coconut benefits to other countries.... This is a big help on us as a coconut farmer...its time to explore more by products of a coconut.... Apil na ang tuba sir.. Big tnx s imohang team sir....
Diverse the use of coconut sir...
Is there any research about fish meal processing sir,using our coconut...
More power to you Secretary Piñol. God bless you and the whole PRRD team. We know you are trying your best to answer all possible needs for the farmers though not all will be resolved instantly.
Wish you all the best!! Sir Manny
Coco sap sugar for diabetics need to be promoted as well.
Lots of my friends love Guava Jelly.
Go go go Sir.. New Market for our Product means progress.. keep well Sir and Stay Healthy.
export buko juice to middle east to help farmers..mabuti pa yung thailand daming agri products nila in other countries,buko,mangoes at iba pa...
More power sir hope it works out for the next few days.
God bless you sir.God knows your heart how you wanted to help your fellow Filipino.Thank you for striving for us farmers.
Good job Sec Manny!
I'll go for coconut oil to use for cooking, it's healthy
Agricultural revolution!
Good move Sec Manny
Job well done po sir 👏👏👏
👏👏👏
This is it!
Good news
Right
Great..
Form a cooperative so we will have a stronger voice in the market..
Hopefully they reach to shipment here in Canada we miss our manga cebu
Victor Chico those are the given constraints sir. And to this we are at a big disadvantage. Promotion is really the key and sustaining its presence in the market. Its a tall order but I think its doable. My point is that I hope its not only Guimaras mangoes are considered. Dami naman na comparable varieties. Besides, Russia only benchmarked protocola from mainland US kaya Guimaras ang hinahanap.
Yah same here in UAE Sec MannyPiñol, naay mga mangoes dri from Pakistan, India, Thailand and Africa walay lasa ug walay humot na same sa atoang mango. And the worst is it’s so expensive and not worth it imong gibayad kay di ka masatisfy not like our very own Phil. Mangoes na sa baho palang mabusog naka. Hope mag export sad mo dri sa UAE Sec. Kay kmi naa dri cge me pangita ug ga hope mi na naay masaag na mangga sa mga supermarket dri. Hope soon Inshaallah.  God Bless Philippines and God Bless our Government 👊🏻 🇵🇭
Our mangoes in Kidapawan North Cotabato is very sweet& good quality. We need help to have good export market  para makabawi sa pagpatanom ani. A lot had been cut down because of very discouraging price. I hope with the help of DA sec Pinol makabawi kmi. More power Dept of Agriculture
Officially yes hindi naman kasi nag pa register ang Super Galila sa Guiness Book. pero mas mataas ang sweetness level ng Guimaras Super Galila which is 24 Brix ang Sweet Elena ng Zambales only 22 Brix.
There's a world record for a lot of things but it doesn't necessarily mean it's the one that the market would want.  Just as an example, with mangoes, it's not really just about sweetness, there are other flavors that appeal to consumers including the slight tart flavor.  I haven't tasted sweet Elena but I've been told it indeed does have a slight tartiness that I find appealing.
F Charito Imperial-Sebastian I checked Guinness. There’s no record. If you know the edition please let me know. I want a copy of it to show my children. Thank you!
SO True nothing can match a Philippine Mango especially Guimaras. The problem it's very limited.
Yes, we also have thai mangoes in Singapore. They only look bigger but ours is still sweeter by a long shot.
Mark Garcia yep. Lasang gamot pa. No mango can beat ours.
What is important now Sec. Piñol to help the farmers raise the buying price of Palay!!!
Chandra Ortaliz Cacho  guimaras i tbink is a record holder for world(s sweetest mango.. Sorry i cannot give link too lazy hehehe
sir manny this is a good problem... we have the main  product we just need to upgrades our facility until we can export... and sana ung kitaan makarating hangang sa mga farmers... like what is happening in coconut farmers now...
Wow thats good news to all mango farmers!!
More exports for Philippines.Time to review the Guimaras mango variety for its improvement and adaptability in other suitable areas in Philippines for more plantations and source of livelihoods for local citizens.
We need to plant more Mr. Secretary! Seedlings of the Guimaras variety is scarce here in Ilocos Norte..
GUIMARAS mangoes...THE BEST!!!!
Please export mangoes to Canada too Mr. MannyPiñol. Mangoes available here are nothing compared sa Philippine mangoes!😁 please po🙏🏼
NZ needs 🇵🇭 Mangoes please 🙏
Kepp it up, Sec. Manny Pinol and Department of Agriculture. God bless always!!!
Philippine  mangoes are the best in the world, esp mention to Guimaras mangoes.  In Canada,  a piece of Philippine  mango costs CAD20,00.
Keep it up Sec #MannyPiñol.
Guimaras is indeed the sweetest mango in the universe.hehehe
yeeey!... good job sir secretary Manny Piñol.
proud Guimarasnon here!!!! nothing can match the sweetness of Phillippine Mangoes especially in our Province (Guimaras). Come and visit Guimaras island and enjoy our Manggahan FESTIVAL on May 11-22, 2019!
I hope the farmers of guimara mango are benefiting by 50%of the price ...imagine 1000pesos just one mango...!
Philippine fruits being sold in the former Iron Curtain!!!
Wow proud guimarasnon here!
I am so proud of our Philippine mangos! Kahit mahal sa UAE or US binibili ko whenever I see one coz nothing compares to its sweetness and texture!!! Amoy pa lang alam na!!!
Thank you Mr. Sec Manny sir! Mabuhay po kayo
I am optimistically hopeful that something beneficial for our farmers will come out of this trip.....more power to you Sec!
Bring it yo Ireland please !!!
Sir manny pang world class gyud!!
I love  mango from Cebu so sweet
GOOD MOVE SEC..PINOL, LOOKING FOR MARKETS FOR OUR HOME GROWN ORCHARD PRODUCTS...A SINCERE PUBLIC SERVANT...LESS TALK MORE ACTIONS!!!
Nadine Damaso mag import na tau dito sa UAE hehehe
basta c gov. kuguihan kau👍👍👍
wowww, nakakaproud naman...More power to DA and Phil. mango growers.
Wow
good job sir
Jarl Kerome bb hahaha $20/pc
Ennie Estrada Logarta yeah
Wow good job
Clay Torres ... Sa lahat po na gusto makatanim ng Mangoming sa kanilang mga bakuran ay gusto kong ipaabot na masaya akong makapagshare sa inyo ng Mangoming scions pagdugtong sa inyong rootstocks kung gusto nyo mag grafting. Kaya lang limited po ang scions available from my 5 fruit-bearing Mangoming trees, dahil wala po akong mango plantation.  Hindi ko po kayo mapagbigyan ng sabay sabay.   My Batch 6 of Free Mangoming Scions distribution in 2019 is already fully committed to 800 persons who requested since February to July 2018.  Ayoko pong magpromise na hindi ko matutupad.  However, kung ipahintulot ng Panginoon at buhay pa ako at nandyan pa mga Mangoming trees ko, ay itutuloy ko ang Batch 7 in 2020.  IF YOU are willing to wait that long, I would be glad to include you in my new list.   Just PM your recipient's complete name, address and contact number as required by LBC.  Note: Due to FB 5,000 Friends limit, I could no longer add future Free Mangoming scions recipients as "Friends". Therefore, so that you can still be aware and updated of related news, please click "Like" to follow my Page: Mangoming Highlights by Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan.  You can comment or ask question on my posts on this Page or you may chat thru Messenger.
Abdullah Cuenca ... ... Hindi po ako negosyante na nagbebenta ng seedling.  Wala po akong kakayahan, expertise and resources para dyan, ayokong pagkakitaan ang Mangoming.  Umasa ako na ang DA ang tumulong para sa pagpropagate ng marami pero sabi ni sir Manny hindi pala responsibility ng DA yan. Kaya itulutuloy ko na lang ang ginawa ko since 2016 na pamimigay ng Mangoming Scions na LIBRE sa kung sino gusto mag graft for family consumption and sharing to others.  Hence, I created my Page:  Mangoming Highlights by Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan   to showcase Mangoming's story for the information of all interested mango-lovers.
Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan  ako maam..
Jhec Gonzales ...Sa lahat po na gusto makatanim ng Mangoming sa kanilang mga bakuran ay gusto kong ipaabot na masaya akong makapagshare sa inyo ng Mangoming scions pagdugtong sa inyong rootstocks kung gusto nyo mag grafting. Kaya lang limited po ang scions available from my 5 fruit-bearing Mangoming trees, dahil wala po akong mango plantation.  Hindi ko po kayo mapagbigyan ng sabay sabay.   My Batch 6 of Free Mangoming Scions distribution in 2019 is already fully committed to 800 persons who requested since February to July 2018.  Ayoko pong magpromise na hindi ko matutupad.  However, kung ipahintulot ng Panginoon at buhay pa ako at nandyan pa mga Mangoming trees ko, ay itutuloy ko ang Batch 7 in 2020.  IF YOU are willing to wait that long, I would be glad to include you in my new list.   Just PM your recipient's complete name, address and contact number as required by LBC.  Note: Due to FB 5,000 Friends limit, I could no longer add future Free Mangoming scions recipients as "Friends". Therefore, so that you can still be aware and updated of related news, please click "Like" to follow my Page: Mangoming Highlights by Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan.  You can comment or ask question on my posts on this Page or you may chat thru Messenger.
Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan interested ako pwede mo ako isali sa batch 7. Thank u
Maria Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan mam thats true patronize our own product. Will improve business pinoy livelihood.
Sa totoo lang marami na po request from other countries for Mangoming seeds na hindi ko pinagbigyan because wisdom and guidance by the Holy Spirit whispered that Mangoming is a  "blessing to the Philippines".   By the way Mangoming is derivation from two words, "mango" "mine" or translated "my mango", which to me. means that God entrusted me to be the caretaker of His awesome mango, a wonderful blessing to the Philippines thru the people He touched to help in spreading its offspring throughout the country.
Jigs Dolores Ignacio you're right, Guimaras, and Zambales
Jigs Dolores Ignacio  try mangoming of ma. Socorro Modequillo Bodiongan in Iligan! Certified. Registered. About 2-3.5 kilos per fruit.
THANK YOU SEC... GO AHEAD, PUSH OUR MANGO'S FOR EXPORT PARA KUMITA NAMAN MGA LOCAL SELLERS NATIN.
Yes. sir Sec. Manny Pinol bravo.!..tapping eastern europe of our products is in deed a very nice move.. congratulation for job...Sir we would like also suggest that the coco levy fund be used jn putting up 3 multi coco processing plant w/ product of vco, cocowater, coconet, cocofluor, activated carbon, cocoboard and cocosugar.. with a capital outlay of 1billion per plant ut would cost only 42 billion out i of 70+billion of cocolevy fund.. it will be a life long help for cocofarmers a job opportunity for factory workers and country dollar earner a next phil. product to be send to eastern europe nx time...
Sir, Irrigation O patubig, Result Sweet Mangoes + Rice pa more.. and Manny..Manny Action pa More...God Bless You..Sir..
Hard working man 😊
Jhannie Kare bakit nga ganun. Ang sarap ng mangga dito.
True,kahit minsan hindi ko pinag interesan mango from India or Thailand matamis pa rin at mabango mango galing Pinas
Hahahahaha aslum, Secretary Manny Pinol. Sir Bong Pinol
Belinda Gonzales Caypuno Agreed!
Agree
Idol ko si Sir. Sobrang sipag. I will always pray for you.
WOW TRY MANGOMING MAGUGULAT KA SECRETARY...
I say these as both an exporter and Logistics specialist.  I know how it is.
the mango industry specially here in mindanao can meet the demand of importing to international market. we have favorable weather and with proper training we can produce even during offseason.
Madam Ponga Garzon please respect everyone's perspective. 👊
Makikita mo ang effort ni sec piñol para sa mga farmers. hndi lang talaga madali ang lahat pero magtatagumpay din sya dahil sa sipag nya.anti government tong si Ponga Garzon kaya ganan mag isip di maka appreciate.
Thank you for your hard work Sir! Filipinos appreciate that very much!
But we should aim to be better than Thai mango😊
Great Job Sec Manny !! Brgds.. lets have coffee one of these days👍👍👍
YESSS  !   Thank  you and GOOD LUCK !!!
Mexican mangoes are close but small. Nothing can compare to Philippine mangoes.
Mabuhay po kayo Sir MannyPiñol,,God bless you..
galing po.....god bless...
good job sec piñol
Good job everyone
Good Job Sec. Piñol
Good  Job Sec. Pinol
CONGRATULATIONS!!,,THANK YOU VERY MUCH MR. SECRETARY..THE PHILIPPINES IS WORTHY TO HAVE YOU..
Congratulations and Mabuhay po kayo Sir Manny! You're the DFA secretary that most Filipinos are proud of. God bless po Sir Manny! 👏👊🇵🇭
👏👏👏
Right
congrats
Boss Eugene Palomo mcg..wide opportunity po..💪💪💪
Wisdom, Good Health and God's Grace and Favor be upon you Sir MannyPiñol.
Philippines is indeed lucky to have him as DA Sec. 🙏🙏🙏
Sa sipag at tiyaga I salute you Mr.Pinol... What needs to be strengthened is the political will to fight against vested interest in the official government family... GOOD LUCK AND GOD BLESS PO..♨♨♨
A good deed never dies , it goes on and on and it never tires .....
tikal!!!!!
Brilliant! Mabuhay po kayo Sec.Pinol  God bless
good job po
Thank you once again  Our ever hardworking agri secretary  And in between this hectic work sir manny took chance to even reply to comments in his fb page for questions raise by concern farmers and even those who bash him despite his hardwork... So pls people next time you ask why Sir manny is not replying to your repetitive questions and bashing(despite some he already  answered from previous post). Please understnd that he is working hard to catch up for the work neglected for decades. I really wish Pia ptv or pcoo who ever is in charge  should help Da   in information dissemination on his works and why our agri sector was left out and now We are catching up thanks to hardworking da staffs now And headed by our good secretary  Again he Cant Just increase the price of rice copra corn rubber anytime understnd that he dont Have the power to do so  But he is trying his best to stop the greedy traders from their practice  ,  to find other market  to promote the products,  to find alternative etc etc  And again dont forget to vote for congresman and senators who will help make bills and pass laws which will protect agri sector  and   fully support  budget for agri progress and innovation.
Jigs Dolores Ignacio amen Sir.
Right
God bless Philippines-  Thanks much sir Manny
Bry Macalma correct middle ang yumayaman
Palay buying sa NFA =P20/kilo na. Ibang branch tig P25. Mataas na ang iba pang agri products ngayon. Masipag na DA ngayon, puro parin tayo reklamo.
Grbe ntlga c digong dnya nkita gnu pg hirap sa mga  farmer subrang mura ng copra inuna lng nya png war ship na billion2 halaga npabayaan nnya mga magsasaka na puyat na mgtrabaho tpos Ang mura ng price sa buying products sa copra at palay
Repost Dear Friends, Will you please post and help me forward this message to all your other groups so that it gets circulated, thanks. Soon the season of fruits like mango, durians, rambutans, langsat (lansones), duku, mangosteen, jack fruit, etc will be here. My request to all of us is to NOT throw the seeds in your rubbish bin, but INSTEAD to wash them, dry them (in the sun) and pack it in newspaper and keep it in your car. Whenever you go out and find an open baren land while travelling, be it on a village road, on an empty motorway, throw these seeds. They will germinate easily in the the coming monsoon.  If with this simple act, we can contribute even a single tree each season to our world, our mission of greening this world would be successful.  The Thai government has been promoting this to all its citizen over the last few years. Many of their other districts officers have been driving this campaign aggressively which has been very successful. The number of fruit trees in the wild have multiplied many times over particularly in the Northern districts of Thailand.  Let’s us also join the Thais in this brilliant initiative to spread abundance in nature and in this simple yet effective way and contribute back to our next generations. Please forward to all groups...
hope coconut price will increase too...
My late grandfather started the planting of rubber trees and the logging concessions in Mindanao...when they cut trees they reforestrated now they just cut cut cut that is why a lot of forests are denuded...they also planted paper trees which later on was continUEd by the late Hans Menzi that was called the Internation Paper Mill..his ashes were scattered in Manila Bay...He was an oldtimer Swiss Business man who owned Bulletin Today Liwayway Publishing and other chain of businesses...he was the God father of Bongbong Marcos...I do not know if Bongbong was one of his heirs because he had no heirs...so I heard that Bongbong was one of them...Mindanao is really the land of promise that is why a lot of folks moved out there when the had the homestead grants!!!
Alex Bermudez👍🏻👍🏻
Hoping for increase price of rubber..
Cheaper rice sana
Criselda Sorilla wow gyud
Say Almadinie tinood unta...
btaw, nay.. matinuod jud unta..
Alex Bermudez👍🏻👍🏻
Ysa Ada Ramos salamat ani nga post .
Alex Bermudez hapit naka ma rich sir. Ahw super rich diay kai rich naman daan 🤣🤣🤪🤪
Cheryl M Yorong ako na unta ipaputol hapit
Sol Yorong nah maayo nalang wa pa
Nesson Binobo oo daghan jud malipay
Wow nice
good
Macky Dudz alright!!!
Bliss
good news for you Denvi Cabrera
Thank you Tess
Patiño D. Reneeboy dami ako nyan
Ard Mills hahaha maynalang nis...14.10 lol
Clarita Carlos thanks mam. So much to do, so little time. Just doing my best to help.
MannyPiñol  padayon lang, Gov Sec.. you are on the right track. 👊👊👊👊👊👊👊   Monolithic Mosque Dome sa Iraq, tinamaan ng missile, nakatayo pa rin.
Congrats sir piñol for doing the best Ang Good for our beloved country. Mabuhay..
MannyPiñol Thanks so much for the effort in helping the plight of the farmers & in helping in the development of the country’s agricultural situation. God bless & God speed🙏👍🤗
MannyPiñol  Saludo ako sayo  Sir.  Sana maayos po rin ninyo problem ng mga coconut farmer sa madaling panahon.. good luck Sir
You are Truly a gift to this country & to our good & over performing Bday Boy PRRD...  Ur genuine public service is really what makes your heart sing...surely it is the very reason that you are not running out of energy coz iit’s energy giving in itself...what a rare breed...  People with passion can change the world for they can have great ideas that can inspire others to believe in it. They make their adversities their advantage...have seed of greatness in them...and you are that man...  Keep it up, thank you & God bless u more...
Sec Piñol, we need more people like you working beside the good President to make the Philippines a dream country! Mabuhay po!
Venus Cayanan tama po kayo nakikita ng mga taxpayers saan na Pupunta binabayad ni lang tax
A wonderful birthday to Pres. Rodrigo Roa Duterte! Wishing the Pres. good health and good governance!
They cud serve as tourist attractions too..as the millenials love to say, the structure is "instagrammable".. So, paging Dept of Tourism Cagayan..Yoohoo!!
Thank you, sir for your loyalty to President Du30 and the Filipino people! Mabuhay po kayo at ng iyong mga kasama 👊 God bless
ロンセスバリエス コイ may drainage system po ito ma'am. At mula po nung I pinanganak po ako 1982 dipa po nababaha ang Southern Cagayan Research Center, Minanga Norte, Iguig, Cagayan.
Good job Sir Manny Pinol an team
Finally, Cagayan is getting some attention! Thank you Sir MannyPiñol, DA and sa ating mahal na Pangulo! May God continue to protect and give you good health!
The strongest structure known to man...   Damihan nyo pa ang mga ganyan, Gov Sec...  Monolithic and Geodesic Domes for the Future👊👊👊👊👊👊👊👊
God bless, Philippines. God bless you Sec. Manny.
Good Job Sir!!! finally a govt with common sense!!!
Sec MannyPiñol , malayo na po ang pinagbago ng DA. Sana magtuloy tuloy po ito...  Nainterview na po kita during your visit here in Capiz po.
Got the chance to visit this site before the inauguration when the budget officers conducted their field visitation in region 2 last february. It sure is a good investment.
good job 👍👏👏 GOD BLESS PHILIPPINES
Happy bday prrd!!!..and thank u sec manny piñol for ur untiring effort to support the govt...para po sa lahat ng inyong pagod, we salute! :)
Rodney Mendioro Balicaco meron actually.
Good design sir🙏🏼
There is really no choice but to adapt . Command centers of ndrmnc  or evacuation centers should also be designed this way for typhone proned areas
Its not my birthday. Its the president's. Thanks anyway.
Great Job Sec. Manny Pinol, can the monolithic dome be used also as shelter of our fellows during emergency situations such as super typhoon?
Thank you very much Secretary Pinol.
Jenelyn O. Yuson Congrats Madam
Thank you Sec Manny for your pro active and dynamic leadership at D A.If only we could clone you to head other Depts..just maybe..to alleviate if not eradicate the virus that is corruption plaguing our govt'l system.Kudos and Mabuhay!
Happy birthday tatay digong
Happy birthday president duterte...
Thank you so much Sir for sharing your adovacy to us... I cant emagine how you manage to work 24/7. Thank you so much, we are so proud to have a secreatary like you. Me and my family pray for your good health and safety. Daghang Salamat Sir.
I agree with the design! Hemispherical ends and torispherical
Congratulations po Sec. Manny! Happy, happy 74th birthday to our loving Tatay Digong! More birthdays to come, good health and happiness. We love you Mr. President! God bless you po!
Thank you for helping PRRD.... Keep up the good work, sir.
Thats a good idea  it must be elevated so the floods can not get in
Happy birthday PRRD,God bless
Congrats sir on this mammoth project
It's a welcome common sense approach.
Thank u so much Sec. Keep up the good work! God bless u sir
More power secretary. Pwede rin monolithic dome house
Hope more GERMAN people will make many constrution in PINAS..GERMANS are really Industrious, accurate akd well organisiert. ..
Happy Birthday Mr. President. Good health and more years to enjoy life!!!
Love you sir Manny. Galing nyo po. Kudos!
Hope it was built on high ground!
Better than building a new Senate bldg. Thank you Sec.Manny!!
Thank you Sir Manny for your tireless effort!! The Filipino people will always remember your legacy long after you’ll retire from government service with all these innovations you instituted. More Power to you Sir! God bless!! 👊👊🇵🇭🇵🇭
Great! This is the first time I see this kind of design. Congratulations and Happy Birthday too Sir PRRD!
Happy birthday Pres. R. Duterti ! We are very proud of you..
VERY GOOD JOB SIR MANNY PIÑOL!
Happy birthday  President Duterte!
KUDOS to you  idol manny..it makes real good sense  to build like this all over the country...
God Bless on your Birthday PRRD! & Thank you for what you have done to our country.
PERFECT disaster-shelter design. This is good news.
How many more of this facility will be built across the country? Also, I hope that DA will build storage facilities that could be used by small farmers and MSMEs, which will protect them and consumers from the cartels that try to manipulate the supply of produce to increase or decrease prices.
Good job   Sir 👏🏼 👍
Gratz sec MannyPiñol
Money well spent.
Congratulations sir!
hbd prrd.. wish u good health always...
Proud Pinoy under your banner
Very innovative
congrats Sir!
Good thinking.....amazing idea
Salute sir!!!
Applause  GOOD JOB!👊
Its great !!!
God be with u always sir
doomsday seed bunkers....
Excellent! 👊
Wow! Great job! 👏🙏👌
Good  job
happy bday
Good job sir
I LIKE THIS
Wow
yes
Thank u Sir MannyPiñol
Sec, tnx for liking my comment! You're my idol, working po kasi kau for the good of our Pinas...more power and good health!
Congratulations Sir. God bless your path.
Happy Birthday, Pres. Duterte!
Happy birtday prrd sir many efren pinol mi for congresman kidapawan city
Pisting yawa grabe nato oi nano man!long live the President!!!
Much better if Solar powered... 👍
Wow, the best😘
Happy Birthday po😊
Hbd po
Maita
Yes
Nice!
Nice!
Coconut oil is better than palm oil. Please find ways to promote the coco oil more. Coconut oil is the future cure all!
Joven Chua Conde even without obligation in WTO they are our neighbors, we are ASEAN db? We should help one another in the region.
Rowena Paredes Barrios Ma'am the Filipinos should dig in more to learn more about the health benefits of the coconuts. We have it in our hand already we don't pay attention to it. As in nag aspire pa na kikita by exporting abroad I find that wrong.  Here in Europe they are mad about VCO n other coco products and are  paying 3x more. It'sexpensive up here. Myself and my sis-in-law was diagnosed with breast cancer last March 2018.  My mastectomy was done. April 2018 such a short time to do what I needed to do before my surgery.  A German friend Introduced to me so with my sis-in-law the VCO as she don't want us to undergo a chemotherapy, she even come to my place with all the fruits and wild herbs to make a smoothie with VCO. With prayers and I religiously do my routine: . First thing before waking up I do oil pulling using VCO, take VCO, my meal-juices and smoothies with VCO, when I got my biopsy result it is all clear so no chemo needed. Glory to God. My sis-in-law who is hesitant and don't want to go through with the VCO routine is now doing her chemo.
best secretary in Du30 admin..
Bingo! A Port-Pair Approach of monitoring using ICT-aided tech may help capture the real data. Great job, SECDA.
Sana naman hndi lang ito publicity stunt....if that is so, thank you Sec.  for the actions you've made to resolve this issue....
Salesman, Diplomat n Public Servant. . .ingat po. God Bless!
You only get what you give.
Listen to the farmers not to them xxxx
Thank you Secretary Manny Pinol.  Look Bro Anjo Nicholas
Pero impressed ako kay manny pinol ha.. in fairness he seems to be doing his job well and seems to actually know the issues here in philippines only thing is can it be solved?
Anjo Nicholas bro be patient and be hopeful.
Fingers and toes crossed lol
Good job sir... tnx
Many thnx...
Through our local partners we can supply the complete solution from Europe. Top quality technology and quality. Plus full local support.
I hope Isabela will receive the same... Isabela needs these things also...
We are ready to provide solutions in Mindoro, as we are in other regions right now... We already made presentations in San Jose and other areas..
Good it’s about time help farmers !!!
Wow!...Cagayan is getting some attention!...💚💜
Congrats! keep it up, Sir!
God bless Sir
Two thumbs up ako syo sec manny..
Good jon working secretary
Wow
Bernard Francisco yes there are local companies constructing spis.
MannyPiñol :  are there govt.assisted funding programs for local cooperative Association to do and make a positive contribution for many farmers and citizens!  KMG DA Programs!
Good job sir. People need to know about these projects...
Maraming salamat sir GOD Bless
Meron po tayong design for vegetables or high value crops sir.
Ed Skinner thank you very much for the info. I will try to conduct location specific cost comparison (long-term) between the solar powered irrigation vs electric powered system with reservoir for a 1 hectare veggie farm. I am interested to venture into high value veggie production.
God Bless you sir!!!
This is a good news
Right
I know the place, we might try to see it Bernard Francisco
Ella Arellano yassss
Sec.Manny gumagawa po kami ng Ferrocement tanks na may water holding capacity ng 10 to 100 cu.m. and above. More than one half po ang ma save kumpara sa reinforced concrete  water reservoir. Sana makatulong kami sa solar irrigation projects  mo po in line with Pres.Duterte Build Build Program.
Among tinahud nga Secretary of Agriculture...may we request your kind attention and favorable action to help our Hon.Mayor with his legislative body to irrigate our irrigable areas here in our municipality of Baliangao..We have here still  1,000 hectares more or less irrigable areas...presently only 650 hectares irrigated,..Thank You much secretary for the positive response..
It is the performance that really counts other than actual physical presence.
Very nice
Right
Great  Job  in  Agricultural  Modernization
Great  Job  in  Agricultural  Modernization
wow...dynoChickens!
U better believe Gov.
Halos imported breed naman....sana local breed hindi kasama imported...
Not surprised. We raised Babrock back then. Chicks were sent by my uncle from US early 50s.
I commend the Philippine Competition Commission or PCC on its plan to investigate this matter. Such matter is prevailing for years until now. The PCC after its investigation and after also founding out the persons responsible should file appropriate charges against them in courts and be able to prosecute them with DOJ's help. This matter must stop as it is eroding the state of Philippine agriculture and putting the onion industry in bad taste.
Sir MannyPiñol itodo nyu na  for the sake of Philippines Agriculture
Wow
PLEASE DO SAME IN EVANGELISTA NAUJAN ORIENTAL MINDORO..TY PO
Well done. I just came back from Morocco. They have the biggest solar energy plant. It makes so much sense. Kaya din natin yan. More power with God's blessings
Hope you were able to meet the children of the Magsasaka of North Cotabato. FOOD SECURE PHILIPPINES.
Continue the good work mr.secretary para sa bayan.more power God bless po.
God bless the work of your hands, Sir! One by one, I know your dreams for our agriculture sector will come to pass.
You are the best Secretary Sir.
God bless you all sir
Wow
How I wish that people of Sipalay city avail also
